AppDynamics for SAP is available today.
For more information, please review the AppDynamics blog.
Think more connected cities and smart cars, and less smartwatches (sorry Apple Watch and Android Wear).
Thus, it’s application performance management is essential for microservices.
Check out the AppDynamics blog for more information.
Below is a deep dive into each of the integration1.
Be sure to follow us on Twitter @AppDynamics for the latest developments on AppDynamics and AWS.AppDynamics at AWS re:InventGlobal Partner SummitOctober 6, 2015AWS leadership will discuss about the future of the business and the AWS Partner Network (APN) at the Global Partner Summit at AWS re:Invent.
Join us during the following session:Topic: Realizing the Benefits of Cloud: Cloud Migration & Application OptimizationSpeaker: Tom Laszewski, Global Partner Solution Architect Senior Manager at Amazon Web Services.Tom will discuss application optimization and highlight the value AppDynamics brings to our joint customers.Wait.
It’s Just the Beginning.
The AppDynamics ADVANTAGE at AppSphere 2015November 30 – December 4, 2015Las VegasWe’re happy to exclusively announce that Stephen Orban, Global Head of Amazon Web Services Enterprise Strategy, will serve as AppSphere Keynote on Tuesday, December 1.
Stephen will discuss the Future of Enterprise IT.
Customers who register by 11/6 with promo code AWSCUST will enter to win a free trip to Vegas.To learn more, AppDynamics solution for AWS ecosystem, please visit appdynamics.com/aws and sign up for a 60-day free trial of AppDynamics designed exclusively for AWS customers.The AppDynamics Team and I are looking forward to sharing these customer stories, best practices and demonstrating the AppDynamics solution at re:Invent 2015 in Las Vegas.
Viswanathan will present monitoring tips and tricks, troubleshooting info, and talk about fixing .NET performance issues.Sign up for the webinar here.
Each exit point is treated exactly like JMS, .NET messaging, etc.
During the holiday season, this is particularly necessary.
Take a listen to Steve Sturtevant who recently joined AppDynamics as he explains the role AppDynamics plays in the DevOps universe.
Stay-tuned for next time when we learn about NewRelic.
More information on Microservices iQ can be found at this link.
In this blog, I will discuss five things you can do to delight your customers by delivering exceptional end-user experience from your Python applications.
or on-premise virtual machines, containers, servers, network or storage.
Learn more at the Python AppDynamics Application Performance Management web page and join the beta program.
What is APM anyhow?
1.
It’s the only buzzword you’ll read in this article, promise.
Well, maybe also DevOps, but that’s it.
Let’s see what AppDynamics and New Relic have in store for us.
New Relic: Java, Scala, .NET, PHP, Node.js, Ruby and Python.
We’ll dig in deeper with extensions later on.
Let’s split these to backend, mobile and frontend to do a quick runthrough over the main offerings.
The bread and butter of performance management - reporting stats, graphs and insights of your applications performance under the hood.
Is it a low error rate?
Responsiveness?
Throughput?
AppDynamics on the other hand, doesn’t believe in Apdex (as they explained in an article called ”Apdex is Fatally Flawed”).
We’ve also seen the difference in alerting with Apdex and a dynamic baselines.
Moving on to other components in your stack, the first thing that comes to mind is the database.
Java or Scala developers?
Whether you're using an APM tool or not, try Takipi.
5.
Your customers will not tolerate failure, and expect technology to just work.
IBM’s survey data confirms this trend.This accelerating trend is what will differentiate those businesses who learn to engage in new and differentiated ways across multiple channels.
Similarly, these first-mover companies see the need to enter into new or adjacent markets.
For this reason you see most companies creating labs or innovation centers.
These experiments can only be done promptly when the organization adopts smaller agile teams across the business and technology groups.
Breaking up large, and likely slow moving monolithic organizations, software, and systems into smaller units which operate independently.
The ability to experimentation and make decisions on their own.
It will be interesting to see how this progresses with IBMs new survey data.
I sat down with Ankur Jalpota, practice head of strategic and transformation programs at Wipro, and asked him a few questions about the application performance challenges Wipro faced, and why an APM solution like AppDynamics was the key to increasing IT agility and resolving tickets faster.
We broke it down: in one year, the number of end-user facing applications increased 15 percent.
Q: Why did you choose AppDynamics?
What value does its solution offer that you weren’t finding in other monitoring tools?
Q: What overall improvements did Wipro see from incorporating AppDynamics?
How has IT agility increased?
Also attending is a slew of AppDynamics experts like Jonah Kowall, VP of Market Development and Insights.
long ret = map.applyToKey(“key”, v -> v + 1); // ret == 2I don't need to know where the data is stored.
(Function<String, String> & Serializable) (s -> s + star);I don't like having to do this, because it rather defeats the objective of reducing boiler plate code.
A way around this is to define your own interface which is Serializable.
.subscribe(System.out::println); // executed on the client.The Queryable interface is required so that the filter Predicate and the map Function are implicitly Serializable..
If you used the Streams API, you would have to use the complex cast used earlier.Performance of Serializing Lambdas.I used JMH to sample the latency of both serializing and deserializing a simple lambda to append a “*” to a string.
An example is MapFunction which was originally lots of different lambdas which have now been grouped into one class.
We use enums in some places for this reason.
An example is MapFunction which was originally lots of different lambdas which have now been grouped into one class.
Note: using enums are not as clean to implement.ConclusionYou can use lambdas for distributed applications cleanly if the API you use supports it.
You can also switch to using enums if you need the extra performance.
Site Reliability Engineering: DevOps 2.0Has there ever been a better time to be in DevOps?
TV shows like “Person of Interest” and “Mr. Robot” are getting better at showing what developers actually do, using chunks of working code.
Movies like Michael Mann’s “Blackhat” (2015) won praise from Google’s security team for its DevOps accuracy in a few scenes.
To learn more about AppDynamics Microservices iQ, refer here.
Why IT People Hate Their JobsEarlier this year, Cisco company AppDynamics fostered a global study polling CIOs and senior to mid Information Technology (IT) professionals over the topic of digital transformation.
The full report can be found here and provides insight into why some IT professionals hate their jobs.
What emerged from the research were five distinct typologies of technologists (The Five Types of Technologist eBook).
Mark Zuckerberg has since expressed his disappointment in the launch failure by the aerospace company founded by Elon Musk.
The satellite belonged to Facebook’s Internet.org project to bring connectivity to unconnected parts of the world and was meant to be a key milestone for the project.
If the launch had been successful, the satellite would have reached more than a dozen countries.
For those of you who have been out of the loop, the election system in Arizona was breached earlier in May, and the same happened to Illinois in late June.
In both incidents, the voter registration systems had to be taken offline for a number of days after the FBI first discovered the attacks.
The FBI assessed that up to 200,000 voter records had been compromised in Illinois.
These records contain names, addresses, sex, birthdays, and, in some cases, even the last four digits of a voter’s social security number.
In Arizona, officials reported that no data has been compromised.
While the investigation is still ongoing, officials assert that this will not affect the upcoming election.
The hackers are believed to be based overseas, possibly in Russia.
Have a suggestion or preferred topic you would like to see next week?
Tweet at us or leave a comment!
with AppDynamics Pro today!
The post Part Dev, Part Ops = DevOps [INFOGRAPHIC] written by Dustin Whittle appeared first on Application Performance Monitoring Blog from AppDynamics.
Video: Monitoring Netflix's JVMs on AWSLast weekend, Bhaskar Sunkara (VP Product Experience at Appdynamics) gave the following presentation on the partnership between Netflix and and App Dynamics.
time returns to normal.
rotation.
regularly.
service has been restored.
company resources any more.
Stop the “all hands on deck” madness and see how AppDynamics can help your company today.
As a relative newcomer to the world of Application Performance Management (APM) and the larger category of Application Intelligence, I knew I had a lot to learn.
I came into this market having spent the last 15 years in the Analytics space.
The idea of taking large volumes of disparate data and turning it into actionable insight is something I’ve always found compelling.
Though people generally think of a flashy dashboard, Analytics is so much more.
Given my background, getting into the APM space seemed like a huge leap.
My impression was I’d be working with IT organizations more than the business owners.
I’d be in a much more technical space, solving technology problems more than business issues.
Clearly, I had a lot to learn.
in the network.
application, but was added specifically for this test.
transaction saw only a 6% decrease in time.
increments a counter on each loop.
form enabling opcode caching.
each transaction.
and a snapshot contains the call graph.
production PHP environments.
primarily depend on two things: 1.
4:00pm, as OPCache was enabled at 12:10pm on March 14th.
OPCache, it may be less than you were expecting.
a manual mistake?
Do you still need to worry?
around Healthcare IT (HIT), chief among those is Meaningful Use (MU).
Electronic Medical Records (EHR) technology.
everyone was ready to walk out.
The patients however, could not walk way.
ED was only growing longer.
was affecting every patient’s safety!
I will try to explain some of the newer architectural approaches, trends, and provide insight towards AIOps and how it helps to solve this very problem.
Cisco AppDynamics: AppDynamics is an application performance management (APM) and IT operations analytics (ITOA) company based in San Francisco.
Technical Solutions Used for Performance and MonitoringTo gather insights for DZone's Performance and and Monitoring Research Guide, scheduled for release in June, 2016, we spoke to 10 executives, from nine companies, who have created performance and monitoring solutions for their clients.Here's who we talked to:Dustin Whittle, Developer Evangelist, AppDynamics | Michael Sage, Chief DevOps Evangelist,Blazemeter | Rob Malnati, V.P.
Marketing and Pete Mastin, Product Evangelist, Cedexis | Charlie Baker, V.P.
Product Marketing, Dyn | Andreas Grabner, Technology Strategist, Dynatrace | Dave Josephson, Developer Evangelist, and Michelle Urban, Director of Marketing, Librato | Bob Brodie, CTO, SUMOHeavy | Christian Beedgen, CTO and Co-Founder, Sumo Logic | Nick Kephart, Senior Director Product Marketing, ThousandEyesWe asked these executives, "What technical solutions do you use?
"Here's what they told us: We build our own.
Marketing and Pete Mastin, Product Evangelist, Cedexis | Charlie Baker, V.P.
Pokemon Go: A Developer’s PerspectiveEvery app developer dreams of the kind of success that Pokémon Go is enjoying right now.
A month ago, it was just a rumor.
Just 24 hours after it was released, it was the number one top grossing app, even though it was free to download and play.
Even Facebook can’t hold up against the Pokémon onslaught.
By any mobile app performance metrics you want to use, Pokémon Go has been a smashing success.
It’s also at the center of a media firestorm.How did they do it?
It’s a game where you capture little monsters and make them fight each other – part insect collection and part sci-fi gladiator arena.
Kids continued to love it as they grew up and then came the anime manga, the trading cards, the TV cartoons, the dolls and the movies.
What could go wrong?
A lot, it turns out.
A few days after Pokémon Go’s official release, Forbes posted an analysis that declared, “The launch has been an unmitigated disaster.
In this case, the users kept coming, but not every app maker will be so lucky.
In this blog post we will explore a real world example of how to avoid finger pointing and get right down to figuring out how to fix the problem.
This story dates back to June of 2012 but I just came across it so it is new to me.
One of our customers had an event which impacted the performance of multiple databases.
As it turns out dw_logvol was used as a temporary storage location for web logs.
Back-to-School Retail Web Site Performance AnalysisIt’s somehow time to mark the end of summer with Labor Day weekend.
And with that time, comes the rush we remember well as Back to School season.
To no one’s surprise, Oracle was the most frequently mentioned.
Oracle, Java Advisory Committee, Google, Spark, Mozilla, Cloudera and Netflix.
Oracle since they own the JDK, lead development and standards.
IBM is committed to all of those things as well.
Oracle is the main driver.
A good healthy community and contributors like IBM, Red Hat, Azul and even SAP.
IBM is on the governing board for openJDK.
Oracle drives the features.
This is unchartered territory for Java and Typesafe can be very influential to its success.
IBM, Eclipse, Red Hat, and Google.
Android has changed a lot.
They are using homegrown scripts or legacy solutions like Loggly or Splunk.
We used some Groovy in the past (but not extensively).
We use a servlet container to run some of our REST services.
We’re fond of the Rhino JS engine from the JVM and use it extensively.
Nick Kephart, Senior Director Product Marketing, ThousandEyes.
Kunal Agarwal, CEO, Unravel Data.
Len Rosenthal, CMO, Virtual Instruments.
What components should we focus on when the transaction performance has degraded?
What will be the effect of upgrading or changing a particular application component?
What mobile transactions would it affect?
To support the new app functionality, the back-end applications are also changing at a very rapid rate.
If you want to try out the AppDynamics mobile solution, click here.
Dynamic Digest: Week of 3/28Welcome to the Dynamic Digest, a weekly recap of the latest news happening in our industry.
The announcement was made yesterday at Build, the company’s annual user conference, welcoming both BMW and Microsoft.Key takeaway: BMW has been a long time customer of Amazon Web Services (AWS), which made the announcement extra noteworthy.
Apparently, the Justice Department learned of a new way to break into the encrypted iPhone without Apple’s assistance, but with the help of an Israeli forensics firm, Cellebrite,instead.
Check it out.
There are quite a few things we like to do with our free time, they include drinking tea, walking along the beach and crunching numbers.
On the bright side, it looks like we share a passion with our readers, who love to read about the data we analyze.
In it, we’ve collected 13 different projects that range from problem-solving, through data exploring and all the way up to a Java music player.
reports that mobile users represented 40 percent of ebay’s 36 million new users in 2013, accounting for $35 billion in enabled commerce volume (ecv) — an astounding increase of 88 percent over the prior year.
the last i heard the itunes app store has 1.2 million apps.
for the android user, there are about 1.3 million apps to try from.
there is no such thing as bug-free code.
any sufficiently complex code will have bugs, and so will your mobile app.
Suggested actions could include "Provide more information," "Notify IT," "Snooze alert for 30 minutes," or other options.
Sample value: 2 weeks development process 800 lines of code.
Tools: You can get row number information by using Gitlab, Bitbucket, Sonarqube.
In this case, the second developer may have written his algorithm more intensely.
For example, resolving a place where System.out.println is used instead of logging is identified as a minor issue and can be given 2 minutes by Sonarqube to fix it.
Unit Test Coverage: This metric expresses how much of the code is covered by unit tests in percentage.
Consider for example the 3G data for a popular retailer of video games whose home page had 248 resources, a page weight of 4.13 MB, and took just under 30 seconds to be visually complete due to the time it took to download all the images of games whereas another retailer of sports equipment had a homepage with a similar total page weight of 4.12 MB, but only 140 resources and a visually complete time about one third (10.3 seconds) of the video game retailer.
Now is the time to get ready and prepare your website or app for the expected crowds.Here are 6 load testing tips — relevant for load testing in general and especially Black Friday.1.
This includes the communication equipment, databases, networks, etc.
Cabot (https://github.com/arachnys/cabot) seems to be a popular choice, though you will not need it when using StackState.
StackState can provide the same functionality.
I created a company in 1998 for the Java enterprise, another in 2008 and now a Java package for all players and open source.
Java is easy to maintain while esoteric systems are not as they move in and out of favor.After being stuck on Java 6 during the transition from Sun to Oracle, we now have a sound release schedule with significant improvements made to each edition.Incredible evolution from Java 1.5 and parallel computations to Lambda in Java 8.
If you want low latency and low footprint then throughput will degrade.
Throughput and Latency can be obtained from analyzing Garbage collection Logs.
Upload your application’s Garbage Collection log file in http://gceasy.io/ tool.
You should also be sure to check out this list from DevOps.com that gives 15 suggestions for increasing Jenkins productivity and management.3.
2 / 60 * 100)It means application throughput is 96.67% (i.e.
Take a look a CA’s article about the CA APM Jenkins plugin, which “not only allows you to pull APM performance data into Jenkins but also allows you to publish key attributes like build number, status etc to CA APM.” You can also find Jenkins plugins for AppDynamics, Dynatrace AppMon, and New Relic.5.
that took us a week!
you are not afraid to show your product.
If we're all going to use it, what's the problem?
Interested in entering your own project?
Our full list of rules and FAQs can be found in this article.
Which Serverless Platform Should You Use?
We previously discussed core serverless concepts in an Intro to Serverless Computing.
Each function is typically deployed as a Docker container.
As long as that container meets the interface requirements, it will run.
Serverless COBOL functions, anyone?
Utilising a third party gateway enables the swapping out of serverless endpoints with minimum configuration.
Serverless Gateway flow.
For example the client calls the Event Gateway via HTTP, the event is initially routed to AWS Lambda and processed.
With a simple change of configuration, the same client call could be routed to Google Cloud Functions to be processed; the client client would not need to be reconfigured.
Is "Cloud Native" just another overhyped, marketing driven buzzword, or is there real meaning and importance behind the term?
You've probably heard at least a dozen people in the last week say the words "Cloud Native" when talking - or writing some blog.
And you probably have some picture in your head of what that is.
But do you really, truly know what Cloud Native computing is?
Because Cloud Native is more than just a buzzword.
For each host, there are multiple infrastructure  components to monitor ( OS, process, VM, network, container, etc.).
We'll go with a low estimate of 5 different infrastructure monitors per host.
Of course, these hosts exist so that you can run application components.
In our example, we have 10 different services spread across these 5 hosts.
The following table indicates the parameters that decide the probability and impact of failure.
No.
Is this a Strategic change?
From Akka to Zookeeper, over the last year, I have hello-worlded my way through the entire Java ecosystem; I even got to write EJBs for all the servers!
And I had to make sense of Sun’s CORBA implementation.
(Spoiler: There is no sense.
I think that I spend as much time dealing with concurrency as I do recording entries and exits.The Impact on Garbage CollectionBut how does all this impact garbage collection?
To be honest, this is where most of my objects end up as I often value code readability over the small improvements that escape analysis offers.
Currently, escape analysis quickly hits its boundary.
Yet, I hope for future HotSpots to improve to get the best of both worlds even without changing my code.
Every such task is represented by a single, stateful object.
An active fork join pool can spawn millions of such objects every minute.
At this time, I was prototyping a new stitching instrumentation to track context switches between such fork join tasks.
Following the path of a fork join tasks is not trivial.
Each worker thread of a fork join pool applies work stealing and might grab tasks out of the queue of any other task.
Also, tasks might provide a feedback to their parent task on completion.
Carefully evaluate existing technologies in your organizations and if you can find ways to fully automate using these solutions you should.
Nevertheless, you will likely be forced into upgrading some older technologies or outright replacement for others.
If setting up or defining your build process requires any sort of manual intervention it will not be sustainable.
A small team of engineers (10) can produce several new microservices a month.
There is no time for GUIs in this brave new world.
As your organization has begun revolutionizing their software engineering teams by institutionalizing DevOps practices such as continuous deployment, testing, and integration.
leveraging cloud-native 12-factor applications, Docker containers, and serverless, always keep in mind that you need a solution in place to monitor and observe these new systems.
What to Expect from DevOps World 2019The clock is ticking.
DevOps World | Jenkins World – the world’s biggest annual gathering of Jenkins users and DevOps practitioners – is just around the corner, scheduled for Aug. 12-15 in San Francisco.
The agenda is set.
The DevOps Community is rolling out the red carpet.
Are you coming?
You should.
On the Wednesday night of the conference, grab your capes and masks and celebrate with the industry.
Join us for our superhero-themed party!
Are you ready for this year’s show?
Learn more about DevOps World | Jenkins World.
There is an important difference between correlation and causation.
You can find correlation between all kinds of unrelated statistics.
It's utterly ridiculous to think that the divorce rate in Maine is a direct result of how much margarine is consumed per capita.
Yet there it is, the data shows a high level of correlation.
), application servers (JBOSS, Tomcat, .NET, etc.
What was the end user doing?
What infrastructure components are involved in delivering each service?
What software versions are we running?
How are my services connected?
What configuration changes were made recently?
What availability zone is this host running in?
What pod does this container belong to?
Meta-data is available in many places.
It's often overlooked and does not get collected or associated with the relevant components.
This meta-data, when associated with the proper application and infrastructure components creates a wealth of context.
So now that we understand the need for correlation and context, what is their connection with expertise?
But it doesn't end there.
Looking at the man page, the description of the metric leaves you alone with the interpretation of its operational meaning, for example judging if it's good or bad, when to ignore it, and when it will have an impact and on what parts of the system.
Namely, it states: "The total number of segments retransmitted per second - that is, the number of TCP segments transmitted containing one or more previously transmitted octets [tcpRetransSegs]".
Expert knowledge is accumulated over time through experience.
Any single team that manages an application or service has a finite amount of expert knowledge and can only develop expertise in new technologies at a limited pace.
We'll explore the problem and uncover the solution.
There's a dirty little secret in the legacy monitoring world.
It can take 5-10 minutes for an alert to fire in most monitoring tools.
That's 5-10 minutes before you have any indication that there is a problem.
Here's the good news: there's a better, faster way.
Welcome to Part 5 of the "9 New Issues Facing Cloud Applications" blog series.
Incident prioritization - is this a high enough priority to work on right now?
Incident resolution - Declare Victory!
Every step above contributes to the overall time it takes to restore service.
About a year ago we have analyzed our value chain and mapped it onto a Kanban board using Blossom.
Since then it has been iteratively refined to make sure it maps out our actual flow.Incoming requirements are captured in an “Alignment required” column.
This is the triage point for our product management and business engineering people.
We inspect this column at least once per week and together decide on ownership.
From there, our requirements take a rather standard path: specification, solution architecture, implementation, testing, deployment.
Sounds like a waterfall?
Not so much!
I’m sure they’ll release the app later.
This is a mix of ‘testing notes’ and ‘thoughts on how to test’ this type of app.
I spent about an hour or so looking at the app, so the notes are a little scrappy.
I spent about 40 mins or so tidying them up for publication, in the hope that they help someone.
e.g.
I could at this point, resize, hover for tool tip text etc.
And I could test it blind, but what if I get more information first?
How can I observe more about what this app is doing?
It has logging built in.
Try that first.
Turn on logging.
Do something.
Hunt for the file.
Look in the running directory first.
Found file.
Is that random enough?
Don’t know - how could I test that from the GUI?
Is auto copy into clipboard same as copy paste?
Is that random enough?
Don’t know.
Is it 200?
Need to copy and check (into my Test Tool Hub, is 200).
No generation.
No log output.
Obvious bug.
I could carry on like this, but I really want to be able to interrogate and manipulate the system effectively.
I really want to work with the source.
But we don’t have to wait for the code.
We already have the code.
Hint: Most apps come with the source.
It is hard to hide the source if it is on your machine.
Web Client - the source is in your browser.
We need to learn to read it and debug it using the built in browser tools.
Java applications are pretty easy to decompile.
There are tools to do this e.g.
jd.benow.ca (but I use IntelliJ, as you’ll see later).
Ruby executables often are a self-extracting zip with a Ruby interpreter that runs source from a temporary directory - use a file monitor and you’ll probably find where it runs the source from.
Basically, it is very hard to protect your source.
Assume you always have it.
Assume your users and hackers always have it.
It has ever been thus.
Back in the olden days, we used disassemblers and monitors with debuggers to gain access to the assembly version.
Now it is just easier.
If you want to protect your code then you run it on a server.
And have a client server system.
Open IntelliJ.
Create a blank maven project.
Add crappy_little_datagenerator_v_1.0.jar to project as a dependency using the IDE.
OK.
Now we can really see what this is about.
I can see there is a GUI by default, but also a command line tool version.
I can run that from the command line.
We can have multiple main methods in a jar file.
The manifest file controls which one runs by default.
But we can start any one of them we want.
There may well be more bugs in this interface since it is not the one promoted but, it might make it easier to automate for someone who does not know how to code, but knows how to use the command line well.
But, we won’t do that.
We’ll work from the IDE.
I can write unit tests to explore the Data Generator library.
I now have a way of checking if the data generation is statistically valid.
I could call the data generator say 10,000 times, and count each occurrence of the characters and see if they level out.
If not then there might be something wrong with the generation code.
We could view this as unit testing.
Or view the ‘app’ as a client server with the TestDataGUI as the client and the DataGeneration class as the server.
I often do this with web applications.
There are the simple models of “client -> http -> server,” and we use a proxy to mess with the messages; or send messages directly to the server.
This is typically done with an API.
But I also use the concept of App as API.
This is where I send through the HTTP form messages that a GUI would POST, as though it were an API, even if there is no API, and simulate GUI testing without the GUI.
Even though I’m targeting the DataGeneration  class, I’m not thinking of Unit testing, I’m thinking of testing the server without going through the GUI.
This means that I will jump back and forwards between the @Test code, and the GUI while I’m testing.
If I was just doing Unit testing then I probably would not have the app running at the same time.
It might look superficially like I’m Unit testing, but the thought processes are different - try it and see.
I could have just decompiled the app.
A few people on Twitter mentioned this when the competition was running.
I have decompiled the app, but since I have it as a .jar in my project, the decompiled version is essentially a source view so I can do more than if I had simply decompiled it.
Debug the GUI so we can breakpoint it and fiddle, etc.
Breakpoint and evaluate the code while running.
But, what we’ll do is quickly investigate the “International C…” error we found earlier.
Now we could have seen that in the decompiled code as well.
While we are looking at the DataGeneration code we can see that the lowercase chars set will not generate a statistically valid set of chars since there are multiple o’s.
This bug would have been very hard to find from the GUI.
I might have been able to find it from the CLI had I scripted something to analyze all the output.
But sometimes a code review will reveal things.
Certainly, I can scan the code now and find all the spelling errors quite easily without having to scan the app.
Or you can hex dump the binary and you’ll often find the strings tucked away at the end of the file.
OK, get back on track.
The strings of ‘valid’ data to choose from for each of the categories are concatenated together.
This will also skew the statistical ‘randomness’ of the generated output.
Perhaps that was intended?
The loops all use pre increment, which confuses my code reading since I’m really not used to that.
Is this doing what it is meant to?
nextInt is 0 -> var10 (not including var10).
charAt indexes from 0, so would end at the upper level.
e=0; while less than length, increment.
OK, seems OK.
But I might have wrapped it with a unit test if I couldn’t read it.
Something I would be unlikely to do if I had just decompiled it.
And I still might because I haven’t ruled out that I have read it incorrectly, but I’ll do that later.
A lot of string concatenation.
I wonder if the counterstring does that or if it uses a string builder?
Note: a side thought because I’m in ‘tester’ mode and I’m still learning the app.
OK, it uses a string builder in generateCounterString wWhich is good because that is more efficient.
In theory, we know exactly how long the string should be so StringBuilder could be initialized to the length, rather than 100, that would reserve enough memory for the full counterstring at the start of the process and might be faster, it might also trigger an out of memory error early in the generation rather than late.
Hmmm, jumped back to GUI and tried 20000000000 as the counter string, and it dropped to 200.
Look at code to see why.
James Bach has a counterstring app.
I could compare Martin’s to that.
But I have one too, so I’ll compare it to mine since mine uses a different algorithm to James Bach’s.
Gonna try a quick counter string race with my algorithm.
Let us try 2000000 - that should be visible time.
Mine is about 16 seconds faster.
helplightning.com — Help over video with augmented reality.
evernote.com — Tool for organizing information.
doodle.com — The scheduling tool you’ll actually use.
sendtoinc.com — Share links, notes, files and have discussions.
zoom.us — Secure Video and Web conferencing, add-ons available.
Once it’s created, open the Installation tab, select Keycloak OIDC JSON and copy its contents into /tmp/conf/keycloak.json.
Note that this JSON contains a secret field: we’ll need this later!
Then, we’ll create another client that will represent our instrumented application (microservice).
We’ll name it instrumented-application, but you should probably name it after your service’s name.
It’s very similar to the first one, except that we’ll turn on the option.
Finally, open the “Credentials” tab and copy the “Secret.” We’ll need this later as well.
At this point, you should have a configuration file located at /tmp/conf/keycloak.json, which is the Keycloak Open ID Connect (OIDC) JSON file for the proxy-jaeger client.
Note that both the auth-server-url and the credentials.secret values should match the ones from the keycloak.json.
The curl command should return a JSON including a property named access_token (the very first one in the JSON).
This is the token we need for our JAEGER_AUTH_TOKEN.
With the appropriate environment variables in place, you should now start your application!
Note that the sender property is set to HttpSender, indicating that the endpoint environment variable was recognized and an appropriate sender was selected.
As always, join our mailing list or Gitter channel and let us know if you use this feature and whether your use case is covered by it.
The Life of a SpanIn the OpenTracing realm, as well as in other parts of the distributed tracing world, a “span” is the name given to the data structure that stores data related to a single unit of work.
In most cases, developers just worry about instantiating a tracer and letting the instrumentation libraries capture interesting spans.
How they actually reach a backend like Jaeger’s can be somewhat of a mystery.
Let’s try to clear out some of this magic.
For this article, let’s focus on what happens when we assume the defaults for all components involved.
So you’ll have to remember that what actually happens in the background in your own implementation might differ from what we describe here, depending on your configuration.
We’ll use a sample application with the Jaeger Java Client, but other Jaeger client libraries for other languages act in a very similar manner.
The application used in this blog post is very simple and won’t register the tracer with the GlobalTracer as would be usual.
Instead, it just brings an Eclipse Vert.x verticle up and creates a simple span for each HTTP request our handler receives.
req.response().putHeader("content-type", "text/plain").end("Hello from Vert.x!
This reporter will build an instance of the UdpSender, which just sends the captured span using Thrift via UDP to a Jaeger Agent running on localhost.
Depending on the Tracer’s configuration, an HttpSender could have been used instead.
Once an instrumentation library or the “business” code starts a span, the Jaeger Java Client will use the JaegerTracer.SpanBuilderto generate an instance of JaegerS.
This instance includes a reference to a context object ( JaegerSpanContext), including a TraceIDand SpanID.
Both hold the same value for our span, as it’s the root of the tree, also known as the “parent span”.
Our instrumented code starts a span and does the required processing, like adding a specific HTTP header and writing the response to the client.
Once that is done, the try-with-resourcesstatement will automatically call the close()method, which ends up calling JaegerSpan#finish().
The span is then delivered by the JaegerTracerto the RemoteReporter.
reporters=...
beta - This is the second of 4 "slave" microservices.
It is served on http://localhost:8082 and has one endpoint: /v1/beta, which queries alpha endpoint /v1/alpha/beta.
This needs to be done for all microservices.
At the time of writing this post, the latest version of KumuluzEE OpenTracing was 1.3.1.
Exceptions are handled automatically by KumuluzEE OpenTracing.
To demonstrate this, we will throw an exception in the delta microservice.
throw new RuntimeException("Something went wrong here.
We now have to restart the delta microservice and refresh the page.
We can see from the trace that exception was added to the trace as a log.
We will cover adding logs in the next section.
If we look back to our project structure, we added some simulated lag to our application in the beta microservice.
Basically, we added a random delay from 1 to 1000 milliseconds to the request.
We will add this parameter to the trace to see how long we have to wait for the request.
We start by moving the wait time to a new variable.
Then we inject the Tracer instance (we also added @RequestScoped for CDI injection).
After that, we can access the current span with tracer.activeSpan and add our delay to it.
We can do it in three ways: with adding a tag, adding a log entry or adding a baggage item.
tracer.activeSpan().log("Waited " + waitDelay + " milliseconds.
Choosing a method of storing custom data is up to the developer.
Tags are often used for storing metadata information (such as IP addresses, span types, versions, etc.
), logs are used for storing messages (such as exceptions) and baggage is used for storing data, which can be retrieved later with the getBaggageItem() method.
A trace tells you when one of your flows is broken or slow along with the latency of each step.
However, traces don't explain latency or errors.
Logs can explain why.
Metrics allow deeper analysis into system faults.
Traces are also specific to a single operation, they are not aggregated like logs or metrics.
request.
tag.
this dashboard includes three graphs, the first showing the number of spans created (i.e.
method, and we can use it to track how many times this business operation has been executed.
the second showing the average duration of the spans, and third showing the ratio between successful and erronous spans.
the metrics reported by prometheus are based on a range of labels - a metric exists for each unique combination of those labels.
Daily Dose - Scala 2.8 Blasts OffStick a fork in it - Scala 2.8 is done.
The GA release hit this morning with sweeping changes that include a revamped collection library, named and default arguments, optimized array handling, and more.
See the full list of features on Javalobby.
Note that 2.8 is not binary compatible with the 2.7 branch, but the Fresh Scala Initiative should keep all of the libraries updated.I'll Take My Redis To GoJames Bracy has announced his startup around Redis, a NoSQL key-value store.
His product, "Redis To Go", mitigates the pain involved when adding a new Redis server to manage.
This software can get a new Redis server up and running in under a minute.
Redis To Go is currently available as a Heroku add-on.
And to get a dashboard up.
MicroK8s can work with Mac OSX and Windows with some hacks using multipass.
Minikube is the oldest and often first choice solution to start playing with Kubernetes.
For Windows and Mac users, Minikube must run in a Virtual Machine.
You will need VirtualBox, VMware Fusion, or Hyper-V.
Now, if we want to check that container in our browser, we need to open the container and make it available.
There are a few ways to do this, but a port-forward will illustrate how we can view our container.
First, get the pod name through the terminal or via the dashboard.
Then run the kubectl port-forward  with an external port map to the internal port.
Here, I use 9696, which is an open and available port.
There you have it.
Now pointing to http://localhost:9696 in the browser, you will see the hello-world echo server container running NGINX with some impressive stats.
Congratulations, you now have a local Kubernetes environment running, so it is time to run your first application.
You will want to get an application running with one or more nodes.
You can experiment with popular Helm package manager that allows you to run apps like Mattermost, a Slack clone.
Install Helm, then download and run the team-edition.
Helm will give you additional information you may need.
It even provides additional commands to expose your new application.
Wait a few minutes and voila, you now have an open-source Slack clone for team messaging.
Have in mind, running locally versus production are two different things.
Running locally here, we didn’t get into security, persistent storage, and subjects like routing.
In production, you want to make sure your passwords to databases are secured with K8 secrets and that users are locked down with ACL (Access Control List) policies.
Persistent storage means the data saved by your app will not be erased the next time your pod restarts.
Lastly, you want to allow your users to reach your apps through valid URLs versus localhost:8001.
In part 1, I showed that with sidecar auto-injection, your app's pods are automatically festooned with Envoy proxies without ever having to change the application's deployments.
However, there are issues with it that currently prevent us from using it.
For now, we'll do manual injection.
Manually injecting has the obvious drawback that you have to do the injection, but it has a big benefit as well: you need to do it only once (per release of Istio), and once it's done you can check in the results to your source code management system- infrastructure as code and all that.
Let's first set a few environment variables in our Linux shell so we can reference them later on.
(Just copy and paste all of these commands into your Linux terminal.
# The name of the OpenShift project into which you installed Istio.
Now comes the big bang.
The Coolstore microservice demo comes with a giant OpenShift template that will create the microservices and associated databases in your new project.
It will fire off a number of builds that should eventually succeed, but like many real-world projects, ours does not adhere fully to best practices for container-based microservices, so we'll need to work around these issues.
So in this case, our Coolstore gateway has failed to declare port 8081 (the port on which its health probes are exposed), so the health checks will fail.
Wow; that's a lot of hacking.
With our newly minted and Istio-ified project, it's time to redeploy everything.
If the above command reports timeouts, just rerun the for loop until all deployments report success.
This will set up Istio Ingress to route requests for /api/* to our Coolstore gateway, and all other requests will just go to the web UI front end.
You can also access the web consoles of various services such as Prometheus and Grafana.
We will explore these in the next post, but feel free to play around, access the page, generate some load, and inspect the results.
For added fun and value, access the Web front-end URL a few times in your browser, and then check out the D3 Force Layout endpoint above.
The diagram is pretty confusing because some of the non-HTTP/S accesses (for example, to databases) aren't properly linked to the services calling them because Istio cannot interpret these calls.
You should name all of your container and service ports.
You may have noticed in the hacks above we brute-force named all services on port 8080 as http, but non-HTTP services (most notably PostgreSQL and MongoDB, both of which use non-HTTP protocols) were skipped/ignored.
for a hypervisor, i'm using virtualbox, which is supported on mac, linux, and windows.
when running istio and your own applications, you need more memory and cpus than you get by default.
can take several minutes when starting for the first time.
be patient.
doesn't work for me.
directory, restart my machine and start it again.
be patient.
this screenshot shows all istio pods running or completed (ignore the kiali one for now).
note: for some reason the script didn't work for me.
functionality to build cloud-native applications.
i'll blog more about this soon.
for now you can install two sample microservices from this project.
Addition of Configuration 1.0.
Addition of Health Check 1.0,Metrics 1.0, Fault Tolerance 1.0,and JWT Propagation 1.0.Updating to Configuration 1.1.
Addition of Open Tracing 1.0, Open API 1.0, and REST Client 1.0.
The MicroProfile @Health annotation publishes health information using a standard format at a standard URL.
The returned HealthCheckResponse includes a field to indicate if a service is up or down.
You can also add arbitrary metadata that might be helpful in understanding service health (such as perhaps remaining free space in our case).
There are simple factories in the API to easily create and populate a HealthCheckResponse.
In the code example, two application specific metrics are added.
@Timed measures the average time required to get all memberships while @Counted measures how many new memberships were added.
Other such MicroProfile Metrics annotations include @Gauge and @Metered.
A standalone Milvus instance can easily handle vector search for billion-scale vectors.
However, for 10 billion, 100 billion or even larger datasets, a Milvus cluster is needed.
The cluster can be used as a standalone instance for upper-level applications and can meet the business needs of low latency, high concurrency for massive-scale data.
A Milvus cluster can resend requests, separate reading from writing, scale horizontally, and expand dynamically, thus providing a Milvus instance that can expand without limit.
Mishards is a distributed solution for Milvus.
This article will briefly introduce components of the Mishards architecture.
More detailed information will be introduced in the upcoming articles.
Metadata service: All Milvus nodes use this service to share metadata.
Currently, only MySQL is supported.
do_search also invokes search_127.0.0.1.
OpenTracing has been integrated to Milvus.
More information will be covered in the upcoming articles.
Milvus has integrated Prometheus to collect metric data.
Grafana implements metric-based monitoring and Alertmanager is used for alerting.
Mishards will also integrate Prometheus.
For clustering service, log files are distributed in different nodes.
To pinpoint problems, you need to log to the corresponding servers to get the logs.
A single “Admin” service fronts these services in order to create a unified interface for the website to interact with the backend.
So the “Admin” service will be the main orchestrator in connecting the backend services.
Some of the services will have their own databases for persistence.
In our implementation, we have not always persisted data in databases where we should have, but rather created in-memory data stores for this task.
It’s generally a good idea to not share databases between services in order to keep the functionality loosely coupled.
So whenever some information is required, we would always go through the relevant service in order to access them.
This service represents the shopping cart features.
The basic functionality we have implemented is to add items to the cart, get all the items, and clear the cart.
These are mapped to HTTP resources, with the respective HTTP verbs in order to resemble the operations we are doing.
The persistence is done using an RDBMS database and we use the Ballerina JDBC connector in order to execute the SQL statements.
The Ballerina services share some common data types that will be used in multiple services.
These are defined in a common module that is imported as required.
The code for the general structure is shown in Listing 2.
The search resource uses data binding to take in the parameter “query”, which is used to do a search operation in the database using an SQL query.
The result set from the query is converted to a JSON value and returned to the caller.
Listing 3 shows the code that is used to implement the service.
The order management service takes in the order details, which are mainly the items and their quantities included in the order, and persists it to be queried later for information lookup.
Here, for the sake of simplicity, we use an in-memory data storage mechanism to store the information.
The service code for this can be found in Listing 4.
The billing service simply responds to the calls from the admin by looking up the order details using the order management service, creating a receipt for the payment by the user and returning it back.
The actual operations are mocked here, where the implementation does the interactions with the required services.
The code for this can be found in Listing 5.
The shipping handling service, similar to the billing service, takes in the directive from the admin service, contacts the order management service to retrieve the details, and does the shipping operation.
The response from the service is a generated delivery tracking number to be presented to the user.
The code for this service is shown in Listing 6.
Transparent, zero-config proxying for HTTP, HTTP/2, and arbitrary TCP protocols.
Automatic layer-4 load balancing for non-HTTP traffic.
Multi-cluster deployment is experimental as of release 2.7.
Native for traffic splitting and metrics, not for traffic access control.
Also, if for some reason it turns out you can't use it, then if you just google  zipkin scala  you'll see things like  https://github.com/lloydmeta/zipkin-futures  ,  https://github.com/bizreach/play-zipkin-tracing  etc.
You'll find all of it on GitHub.
The current version requires you to &quot;opt-in&quot; which headers you want transported in this way.
Documentation here .
The list of custom headers that will be transported by the binder.
Default: empty.
... to register a custom  HystrixConcurrencyStrategy  that uses your own  Callable  ...
This means that there is a  &lt;dependencyManagement&gt;  entry in your POM or your Parent POM that sets the version to  2.2.0 .
Hope this helps, good luck!
Well, without seeing any code, I could only give you a sample of how you should achieve this.
So an http call, for example if you use node-fetch or axios will return a promise.
I have found the span annotations only get applied on beans properly.
I had to refactor some of my code to create beans from  Factory s or such.
The  doubleName  method is private.
Keep appending the results to same object and keep moving it down the line, untill every micro-service has processed it.
What you have is correct, your issue is likely not DNS.
one topic to another after processing.
There is also a dedicated section on how to  visualize metrics  collected by Istio (e.g.
Let me add to this thread my three bits.
What I would suggest is going to  https://start.spring.io , generate a new project using sleuth and web/webflux, write a single controller and check the logs (do not create any log config file, just leave everything on default).
The Spring Cloud project is moving to their own solutions.
We use some very specific setup.
Not sure if there is a negative of doing this.
I don't think that's possible.
What are they scared of?
The B3 portion of the header is so named for the original name of Zipkin: BigBrotherBird.
It's all written there how things should work.
Please read this page from Zipkin -  https://zipkin.io/pages/instrumenting.html  .
If that's not acceptable for you, go ahead and file an issue in Sleuth so we can discuss it there.
For messaging you'd have to create your own version of the global channel interceptor - like the one we define here -  https://github.com/spring-cloud/spring-cloud-sleuth/blob/master/spring-cloud-sleuth-core/src/main/java/org/springframework/cloud/sleuth/instrument/messaging/TraceSpringIntegrationAutoConfiguration.java#L49-L53  .
Yeah, that's the Brave change.
Another option is to wrap the default span reporter in a similar logic.
Anyways I'll try to answer...
I have no idea how exactly you use Sleuth?
Can you follow the guidelines described here  https://stackoverflow.com/help/how-to-ask  and the next question you ask, ask it with more details?
I finally got it working.
The filter part was missing earlier.
Also, did you try to re-authenticate, perhaps reset cookings, etc?
Did you contact the other end?
How did they respond to it?
I think I found the problem.
I contributed to Micronaut and submitted a PR, which is now merged.
Just open 9160 (and any other ports your custom thrift servers may be listening on).
Look,  ContentEnricher  ( .enrich() ) is request-reply component:  http://docs.spring.io/spring-integration/reference/html/messaging-transformation-chapter.html#payload-enricher .
Now about your particular problem.
Check the  Sleuth with Zipkin via HTTP  section of the docs:  http://cloud.spring.io/spring-cloud-sleuth/spring-cloud-sleuth.html  .
But from my perspective it doesn't sound right.
You are taking a very custom approach.
That's a wrong approach.
The code is in class  org.apache.hadoop.tracing.SpanReceiverHost .
Hope this help!
There is a good description of how to do it here:  http://blog.cloudera.com/blog/2015/12/new-in-cloudera-labs-apache-htrace-incubating/   If you want to stick with an Apache release of the source code rather than a vendor release, try Hadoop 3.0.0-alpha1.
Thanks for trying out HTrace!
There's  a discussion on Gitter  about overriding the versions.
spring-kafka 1.3.x natively uses 0.11 but 1.3.1 and higher (1.3.2 is current) also supports the 1.0.0 client.
Elmhurst (2.0) - currently in milestones - uses SK 2.1.0 which natively uses 1.0.0 kafka.
zipkin.collector.kafka.bootstrap-servers  is set.
argument.
Kafka documentation .
KAFKA_BOOTSTRAP_SERVERS  |  zipkin.collector.kafka.bootstrap-servers  | bootstrap.servers | Comma-separated list of brokers, ex.
127.0.0.1:9092.
KAFKA_GROUP_ID  |  zipkin.collector.kafka.group-id  | group.id | The consumer group this process is consuming on behalf of.
KAFKA_TOPIC  |  zipkin.collector.kafka.topic  | N/A | Comma-separated list of topics that zipkin spans will be consumed from.
KAFKA_STREAMS  |  zipkin.collector.kafka.streams  | N/A | Count of threads consuming the topic.
Why are you setting the values of dependencies manually?
Please use the Edgware.SR2 BOM.
Set the property  logging.pattern.level: "%clr(%5p) %clr([${spring.application.name:-},%X{X-B3-TraceId:-},%X{X-B3-SpanId:-},%X{X-B3-ParentSpanId:-},%X{X-Span-Export:-}]){yellow}" .
That's exactly how you can make each sub-flow async.
This is similar to what you show in the comment above.
This is indeed possible with the mentioned  executor channel .
All you recipient flows must really start from the  ExecutorChannel .
Pay attention to the  IntegrationFlows.from(MessageChannels.executor(taskExexecutor())) .
You should look at this  auto-configuration , and especially this  sender config .
You should only need to add  spring-cloud-starter-zipkin  and  spring-rabbit  to your dependencies.
And that is what you are trying to do with your solution.
Here only the container name is needed.
Add this in application.properties.
Thanks Jorg Heymans for the question.
Thank you!
I've fixed it ATM.
Notice the  .start()  at the end of the method.
I hope this will help you.
You need to use the  -n  switch to echo:  echo -n '$mypw' | base64 .
What logging framework are you using?
I was using log4j2 in my project.
It started working when I removed log4j2 and left it to the default logging of spring-cloud-sleuth.
I belive you had problem with: org.springframework.cloud.sleuth.zipkin.ServerPropertiesEndpointLocator.
It uses InetUtils.findFirstNonLoopbackAddress() to determine instance address.
Method is called synchronously when each span is close (in ZipkinSpanListener#convert).
The workaround is to create custom org.springframework.cloud.sleuth.zipkin.EndpointLocator.
And combine it with one of existing EndpointLocators.
You can find them in: org.springframework.cloud.sleuth.zipkin.ZipkinAutoConfiguration.
This issue is already fixed in sleuth 2.X.X.
The web app is trying to access  config.json  at root (accessing as  /config.json  vs just  config.json  ) - that is  http://localhost:8001/config.json  .
PS:  kubectl proxy  is generally meant to access the Kubernetes API, and  kube port-forward  is the right tool in this case.
I wonder what kind of a benchmarking method you have picked.
Which version of Sleuth are you using?
Also is this one single benchmark that you're doing?
Is it on your computer?
Has the JVM gotten heated up?
Are there any other processes executed?
It seems like you are using  Sleuth with Zipkin via HTTP .
You can try the  Sleuth with Zipkin via Spring Cloud Stream  approach.
In the older version of sleuth I guess what I'd do is to use an executor that is  NOT  a bean.
That way you would lose the trace and it would get restarted at some point (by rest template or sth like that).
Thanks for the kind words!
If its a persistent actor then you can always bring it back when you need it.
2) If you are using cluster sharding then check the akka.cluster.sharding.state-store-mode.
By changing this to persistence we gained 50% more TPS.
3) Minimize your log entries (set it to info level).
4) Tune your logs to publish messages frequently to your logging system.
Update the batch size, batch count and interval accordingly.
So that the memory is freed.
1) Make sure you stop entities/actors which are no longer required.
Finally got it to work removing  @AutoConfigureAfter ,  @CondtionnalOnBean  and  @ConditionnalOnMissingBean , using instead  @ConditionalOnClass ,  @ConditionnalOnMissingClass  and reproducing other  @Conditionnals  from  TraceAutoConfiguration .
Not great, but at least working.
I think that Christian Posta article you refer to is very good.
For a tempory fix, you can enable retry properties to create advice chain.
Hope this resolves your problem.
I had this same issue, changing Spring Boot version to 2.1.0.RELEASE did the trick for me.
You should try it too.
Once I figure out how to get it working I'll update this.
OK managed to get it working with appmetrics-dash.
You need to use monitor() instead of attach() and move the monitor to the end of your routes as so.
Or a better approach  if there aint any support/ plugin for the same.
The way that I do it us through  Prometheus , in combination with  cloudwatch_exporter , and  alertmanager .
You would then configure  alertmanager  to alert based on those scraped metrics; I do not alert on those metrics so I cannot give you an example.
If you need to use something like  statsd  you can use  statsd_exporter .
FYI, this worked after generating dummy X-B3-SpanId; it works as long as X-B3-TraceId is unique.
e.g.
It looks like you are using NGINX Ingress Controller provided by nginxinc.
You can find more information about  Rewrites Support  for NGINX Ingress Controller provided by  nginxinc here .
It's different from the kubernetes community at  kubernetes/ingress-nginx repo .
Different ingress controllers have different configs and annotations.
If S1 sends a request to S2 it's the S1 that sets the sampler value and S2 just continues the result.
In other words S1 will export to zipkin 100 * 0.1 = 10 requests, and S2 will export 100 * 0.1 = 10 requests.
S1 makes a decision and S2 will continue it.
If this is the case, then the rewrite annotation is removing the URI.
So you would need to change your yaml like this to pass  /zipkin  to your backend.
Just to clarify the OP problem.
One more suggestion:  spring-cloud-starter-zipkin  belongs to the  org.springframework.cloud  group which follows another version.
I was able to setup OpenCensus in GCP (in an instance on the project) by following the steps  mentioned here .
You should use  egress-gateway .
If you want to set a dependency version by property, this property must be set inside the POM, on the command line or in the  settings.xml .
You are using an old version of the plugin ( 1.0-alpha-2 ), update it to the  latest   1.0.0 .
Then make sure that the file  version.properties  is in the folder  C:\Workspace .
You should create a bean (via  SleuthFeignBuilder.builder ) and inject that into your code.
Dependencies are resolved before plugins are executed.
Is it correct that you are using the code example from the baeldung tutorial?
( http://www.baeldung.com/tracing-services-with-zipkin  - 3.2.
I think there is a mistake with line 34 and 35 (the closing curly brace).
Maybe this helps someone or maybe someone from baeldung reads this and could verify and correct the code example.
Problem solved.
tracer.withSpanInScope(clientSpan)  would do the work.
Note that,  withSpanInScope(...)  has not been called before sending messages .
But again, our job isn't to tell you how good our stack is, or even help you use it.
It's to make our stack awesome.
Most likely your code is broken.
What's that you say?
You're not as big as twitter?
You only have three services: a web frontend, some kind of middleware, and your database backend?
Is your platform this intense?
You should use zipkin.
Did I mention it's one of the best scaling systems I've ever seen?
The grok{} filter uses patterns (existing or user-defined regexps) to split the input into fields.
You would need to make sure that it was mapped to an integer (e.g.
%{INT:duration:int} in your pattern).
The first step to good searching in elasticsearch is to create fields from your data.
I am not an expert at hosts files, but I added an alias for my actual host name to my IP (note: we use static ip's).
You don't have to remove all the lines from hosts files.
It worked for me.
You can try this approach as well.
To fix, you need to change 'queue-name' into something with valid characters, for example 'queue_name' (with underscore), or 'queueName' (camel case).
Property names must obey the rules for a message selector identifier.
Section 3.8 “Message selection” for more information.
An identifier is an unlimited-length character sequence that must begin with a Java identifier start character; all following characters must be Java identifier part characters.
An identifier start character is any character for which the method  Character.isJavaIdentifierStart  returns  true .
So, please go through the  doc  for more detail info.
You're using an ancient version of Spring CLoud.
Please upgrade to latest Edgware.
The RxJava support is very basic so we suggest that you use Project Reactor.
To do that just migrate to Finchley and it should work out of the box with WebFlux.
You're using an ancient version of Sleuth, can you please upgrade?
Why do you provide Zipkin's version manually?
Also as far as I see you're using the Sleuth's Zipkin server (that is deprecated in Edgware and removed in Finchley).
My suggestion is that you stop using the Sleuth's Stream server (you can read more about this here  https://cloud.spring.io/spring-cloud-static/Edgware.SR3/single/spring-cloud.html#_sleuth_with_zipkin_via_rabbitmq_or_kafka ).
It has nothing to do with Spring Cloud Sleuth or Zipkin.
@SpringBootApplication automatically does @ComponentScan so all @RestController classes will get registered as beans if they are in the same package as your @SpringBootApplication annotated class or if it's in the child packages.
Object.keys(headers).filter((key) =&gt; TRACING_HEADERS.includes(key)).map((key) =&gt; headers[key])  returns an  array .
Otherwise though, you are trying to run Zipkin in an unsupported configuration.
which means your approach is 2.
Below is the code snippet to add error tag to span.
i think i found a suitable way to do this.
https://github.com/helm/charts/tree/master/stable/elastic-stack .
Install your ELK helm release on a  separate  namespace, for example:  logging .
elasticsearch.${namespace}.svc.cluster.local .
I don't have any link to the best practice, but I would show you a practice I saw from the community.
This is due to not having an instance of the query server running.
I'm in the middle of a re-write that'll simplify all of this.
Until then, you need to spin up a query server.
Instrumenting a library is something that sometimes folks have to do for one reason or another.
There are several tracer libraries in Java but the salient points about creating a tracer are either on the website, or issues on the website.
This isn't a one-answer type of question, in my experience, as you'll learn you'll need to address other things that tracer libraries address out-of-box.
I was recording wrong annotation i.e client instead of server.
Just a simple change did the trick.
Not all support this at the moment, but I would expect this type of feature to become more common.
Let's assume this is for inbound flags which never change through the request/trace tree.
We see a header when processing trace data, we store it and forward it downstream.
If this value doesn't need to be read by the tracing system, it is easiest, as it is largely a transport/propagation concern.
You may define all needed params via ENV options.
1.You should check if your Zipkin Server is on.
2.You should check if the Span transfering is async.
The class to convert it is available in spring-cloud-sleuth-stream.
I used pretty much the same class with some tweaks.
Here you have a very basic example of Sleuth &amp; HTTP communication.
https://github.com/openzipkin/sleuth-webmvc-example  You can set your dependencies in a similar manner and everything should work fine.
In your example you've got Stream but I don't think you're using it so it's better to remove it.
For testing the default is often enough, and it probably is all you need if you are only using the logs (e.g.
with an ELK aggregator).
If someone ends up reading this and needs more detail, you're welcome to reach out to me.
After some discussion with Marcin Grzejszczak and Adrien Cole (zipkin and sleuth creators/active developers) I ended up creating a Jersey filter that acts as bridge between sleuth and brave.
The connection_string parameter indicates the collector (where the trace information is stored).
By default it uses Ceilometer.
The launch method takes an optional CoroutineContext and the coroutine-slf4j integration implements the MDCContext.
This class captures the calling thread's MDC context (creates a copy) and uses that for the coroutine execution.
The coroutine framework will take care of restoring the MDC context on the worker thread whenever the coroutine is executed/resumed.
This is the easiest solution I could discover so far.
Does that help/makes sense ?
Do you need this dependency "spring-cloud-starter-zipkin", are you using it?
mvn dependency:tree and try to align spring-cloud-starter-zipkin with the Spring version you are using.
Playing a bit with the version of your artifacts you will find the solution.
Hope it helped.
I use &quot;TraceCallable&quot; class from &quot; spring-cloud-sleuth &quot; lib to solve it in my code.
Attention: This solution does works for logging purposes, but does not work for other Sleuth features like instrumenting RestTemplates to send the tracing headers to other services.
So unfortunately, this is not a fully working solution.
Q2.
How do I configure zipkin SINK channel to destination?
you should start using the inbuilt rabbitmq support from Zipkin).
At client side: Q1.
Is there an automatic configuration for zipkin rabbit binding in such scenario?
If not, what is default channel name of zipkin SOURCE channel?
Yes, there is.
Q2.
Do I need to configure defaultSampler to AlwaysSampler()?
No, you have the  PercentageBasedSampler  (I'm pretty sure it's written in the docs).
You can tweak its values.
At Server side: Q1.
I have a client application with multiple channels as SOURCE/SINK.
I want to send logs to Zipkin server.
My suggestion is that you go through the documentation  https://cloud.spring.io/spring-cloud-static/Edgware.SR3/single/spring-cloud.html#_spring_cloud_sleuth  and read that the  stream servers  are deprecated and you should use the openzipkin zipkin server with rabbitmq support ( https://github.com/openzipkin/zipkin/tree/master/zipkin-collector/rabbitmq ).
On the consumer side use  https://cloud.spring.io/spring-cloud-static/Edgware.SR3/single/spring-cloud.html#_sleuth_with_zipkin_via_rabbitmq_or_kafka  .
It really is as simple as that.
Yeah,you should use different libraries for different languages.
Brave for Java,Zipkin4net for C# and so on.
For more details,you can visit Zipkin official site:  Zipkin Existing instrumentations .
Then all you shoud do is following the librarie guide.
Have fun!
You've mixed almost everything you could have mixed.
Have you read the documentation?
instrumented.
want to call.
wrapped in such a span.
the SA tag!
Everything is there in the docs.
If it comes from the  @Scheduled  method then you can use  https://github.com/spring-cloud/spring-cloud-sleuth/blob/master/spring-cloud-sleuth-core/src/main/java/org/springframework/cloud/sleuth/instrument/scheduling/SleuthSchedulingProperties.java#L38  ( spring.sleuth.scheduled.skipPattern ) to find the thread and disable it.
If you say its name is  async  then it means that it comes from a  TraceRunnable  or  TraceCallable .
That can be problematic to get rid off.
If you read the docs or any information starting from edgware you would see that we've removed that support.
I opened a issue on the zipkin github, a theme already being treated as a bug.
Tks for all!
There are other tools which are built specifically to cater the needs to business operations which you must consider.
P.S.
I am a Zipkin contributor.
This is not an answer to how achieve this with zipkin but yes for the whole problem.
If you still have further questions drop in to the zipkin  gitter  channel.
Seems to work once I added the Web package.
Though I don't recall it being needed previously.
So by definition it requires to collect successful and failed traces.
However  traces  have nothing to do with logging.
If anyone has a methodology to figure out this kind of issue quickly, don't hesitate to add it in the comment or edit this answer.
It makes perfect sense that it's  null .
That's because YOU control the way what happens with the caught exception.
In your case, nothing, cause you swallow that exception.
And indeed, upgrading from  jdk1.8.0_25  to  jdk1.8.0_201  .
Finally, I also found that if I was using  jdk1.8.0_25  and wasn't providing the  sender.type  at all, then the app was also starting with no issue.
You can go to my repo  https://github.com/marcingrzejszczak/docker-elk  and run  ./   getReadyForConference.sh , it will start docker containers with the ELK stack, run the apps, curl the request to the apps so that you can then check them in ELK.
Alright, so after a few hours struggling, I made some progress, and now the app starts - even though the root cause of the issue is not fully clear to me at this time.
Hope the above information helps.
No you can't.
Does c3p0 recover?
Is this a rare or frequent deadlock?
I spoke for personal experience with spring boot application 2.x family.
both solution works for me, spring boot 1.5.x was the base spring boot version for my master thesis and spring boot 2.x version for a my personal distributed system project that I use every day for my persona family budget management.
Hope this can help.
This one is really the key to not have the exception when I start docker-compose.
It works well.
requires  &lt;zipkin-collector-service&gt;.&lt;zipkin-collector-namespace&gt;:9411  according to  istio  documentation.
While You have just IP address and port of external server.
Hi I just resolved this issue ..
Step1.verify C:\Programfiles\Err(version) folder including bin folder is created or not.
Otherwise try to download and install Erlang again.
reinstall RabbitMQ and try connecting Zipkin.
Make sure Erlang version and RabbitMQ version is compatible.
The following worked.
Sorry, I cannot provide info on all details since I don't know them :( Maybe somebody else can.
How the correlation id will be passed to Http requests?
Through HTTP Headers.
Is it possible to use existing tracedId from other service?
You should use e.g.
openzipkin Brave project or Opentelemetry projects directly.
I think what you call correlationId is in fact the traceId, if you are new to distributed tracing, I highly recommend reading the docs of  spring-cloud-sleuth , the  introduction  section will give you a basic understanding while the  propagation  will tell you well, how your fields are propagated across services.
I also recommend this talk:  Distributed Tracing: Latency Analysis for Your Microservices - Grzejszczak, Krishna .
No, the tracing SPI will not be backported to Vert.x 3.
mi­gra­tion.
Yes, they are both stateless.
You can deploy them using whatever horizontal-scalability construct is available to you.
When connecting to the mysql container while using links, you need to use the container name as a hostname.
Why are you mocking a span?
This makes absolutely no sense.
I believe that you can extract those headers in this  @RequestMapping  method and populate them to the AMQP message before sending.
See  org.springframework.amqp.core.MessageBuilder .
my zipkin server.
I was using Finchley.SR2 train of releases.
Once I upgraded to the latest Spring Boot and Spring Cloud versions, the issue fixed itself.
OK!
I see now the problem!
So, if I was in a hurry and test very early (when RabbitMQ is not yet available) it fails, and not retries.
Thanks again to  Jonatan Ivanov  for helping me!
1 - I was using zipkin-slim docker image for my zip container.
Then the applications that read the messages get the trace information from the header.
And if you need more help, I recommend jumping on IRC #zipkin.
Try to make it work using the  sample  and try to bring the working example closer to your app (by adding dependencies) and see what is the difference between the two and where will it break.
If you can create a minimal sample app (e.g.
: based on the zipkin sample) that reproduces the issue, please feel free to create an issue on GH:  https://github.com/spring-cloud/spring-cloud-sleuth  and tag me ( @jonatan-ivanov ), I can take a look.
Finally I found it.
I added the parent_span_id, and span_id to the message header before the message is placed on the queue.
You need to provide how do you want to send the spans to Zipkin - thus you need a binder.
One possible binder is the RabbitMQ binder.
It seems that Brave does not support this.
An issue has been reported on their GitHub page.
I have the same config running on my ingress 9.0-beta.11.
I guess it's just a misconfiguration.
First I'll recommend you to not change the template and use the default values and just change when the basic-auth works.
What the logs of ingress show to you?
Did you create the basic-auth file in the same namespace of the ingress resource?
The issue got fixed -  https://github.com/spring-cloud/spring-cloud-sleuth/issues/585  .
I found the solution I think.
Please use latest snapshots.
Basically, we create a span and link it to the parent context created by Spring for the request (either from an incoming B3 HTTP header, or generated if absent).
&quot;ctx&quot; is the subscriber context here.
This is just because I didn't want to do the SQS producer instrumentation myself nor add the tracing headers programmatically.
I think you must have found your answer by now.
But I am posting this for future reference.
Take a look at this  Github issue , it basically explains everything and provides a few workarounds.
I had added the zipkin middleware  after  my call to  app.get .
Express executes middlwares in order and makes no distinction between middleware for a named route vs. something added via  app.use .
Gave me the result I was looking for.
I get the same problem and below command did the trick.
I checked the source code.
Getting a handle on the distributed tracing space can be a bit confusing.
Here's a quick summary...
The "hack" approach is to stuff trace identifiers as the message key.
A less hacky way would be to coordinate a body wrapper which you can nest the trace context into.
I meet the same problem too.Here is my solution, a less hacky way as above said.
you must implements MyHttpServerRequest and MyRequest.It is easy,you just return something a span need,such as uri,header,method.
This is a rough and ugly code example,just offer an idea.
server.address=&lt;ip&gt;  does not work?
For example, you see timing of the client sending to the server, and also the way back to the client.
One-way is where you leave out the other side.
The span starts with a "cs" (client send) and ends with a "sr" (server received).
We have a  LazyTraceExecutor  that you can use -  https://github.com/spring-cloud/spring-cloud-sleuth/blob/master/spring-cloud-sleuth-core/src/main/java/org/springframework/cloud/sleuth/instrument/async/LazyTraceExecutor.java  .
There are a bunch of ways to answer this, but I'll answer it from the "one-way" perspective.
The short answer though, is I think you have to roll your own right now!
And therefore, the property to control the skipped regexp is not spring.sleuth.instrument.web.skipPattern , but spring.sleuth.instrument.
Of course - you have to just provide your own logging format (e.g.
via   logging.pattern.level  - check  https://docs.spring.io/spring-boot/docs/current/reference/html/boot-features-logging.html  for more info).
There's another solution for more complex approach that seems much easier than rewriting Sleuth classes.
You can try the  logback-spring.xml  way like here -  
The correct property is not  spring.sleuth.sampler.percentage .
And here is a workaround we found right before noticing that the property was wrong.
Here are some official documentation from Spring Cloud that contain the wrong property.
Here is the source code that is being used and it is using  probability  not  percentage .
How you can see i use the streaming version.
I believe you should be able to as long as you use the fully qualified domain name.
For instance,  zipkin.mynamespace.svc.cluster.local .
Ok we found the problem and also a work around.to fix it i have added   sleuth.version  to properties  in pom.xml like so.
after then remove unused dependencies build and run.
This class comes from zipkin-2.
You can try adding this dependency.
Simply means that RabbitMQ is not running on  localhost:5672  (which is the default if you don't provide a host/port, or addresses, for it in your  application.yml ).
This probably doesn't answer your question, but I hope it helps.
It's hard to tell without more information.
Can you post your dependencies?
That is simply ridiculous.
Other profilers are available.
No, it  is not suitable at all .
Why?
For more information, check the  test file  of the tracer.
The best way to ask for a feature is using github issues.
I had to do some extra research for samples to get all the required dependencies and configuration together.
I wanted to share it, because I believe it could be helpful for someone else.
I have tested this with the official  opencensus-node  example at github.
I'd recommend upgrading to Camden.SR5  which is compatible with Spring Boot 1.5 .
Even I got this error while setting up my project.
I was using Spring boot 1.5.8 with the Brixton.SR6 release.
However, when I consulted the site  http://projects.spring.io/spring-cloud/  I got to know the issue and I updated my dependency to Dalston.SR4 and then the application started working.
The official documentation was helpful, but I think it didn't include all the dependencies explicitly (at least as of now).
I am just posting this if anyone encounters the same issues and lands on this page.
when I added  spring.sleuth.sampler.percentage=1.0  in the properties files, it started working.
Which has changed from percentage to probability.
Found multiple language examples at  github .
Are you looking to test Cloud Foundry for its suitability?
Add the AzureIdentity and AzureIdentityBinding roles to cluster as mentioned in docs.
once done, use the selector defined AzureIdentityBinding as label while deploying helm chart.
Check for the actual syntax for podLabels using with --set in helm install command.
Or you can clone the charts and make changes to values.yaml below and install it from local charts.
Please, take a look into the documentation below, it will help you to understand better the App Autoscaler mechanism.
What is xip.io?
for any IP address.
Say your LAN IP address is 10.0.0.1.
...and so on.
Anyway, there might be other hiccups.
This is just off the top of my head.
You can see it's a lot better if you can set up DNS.
Like if you have  app-a.apps_domain  and  app-b.apps_domain  and  app-a  needs to talk to  app-b .
You would need to do this for  uaa.system_domain ,  login.system_domain ,  api.system_domain  and any host names you want to use for apps deployed to your foundation, like  my-super-cool-app.apps_domain .
That's not a very elegant way to use CF though.
You can manually set entries in your /etc/hosts` (or similar on Windows).
This is basically a way to override DNS resolution and supply your own custom IP.
However, this is on hold until the above GEODE JIRA tickets get sorted out.
The short answer is no.
You really, really want to have DNS set up properly.
Here's the long answer that is more nuanced.
When you declare the  @CacheEvent(allEntries = true)  annotation/attribute on your managed application component, for example...
This in effect calls  Region.clear()  (see  here ).
You don't need any infrastructure or docker for this and the configuration and set up is easy.
For more information, visit  http://www.stagemonitor.org/ .
This is how you enable the widget:  https://github.com/stagemonitor/stagemonitor/wiki/Step-2%3A-Log-Only-Monitoring-In-Browser-Widget#in-browser-widget .
That can be found in  information_schema .
Finally I found out how to disable the browser widget.
You can see more information about it  here .
Thanks and happy tracing!
If you contact us via the [Support] button in LightStep, we should be able to get you sorted out.
Please send us a note so that we can confirm that this is solved for you.
Sorry you're having trouble getting Java and Go to play well together.
Added flags to my run configuration, and increase XMS and XMX twice.
pod install  is  cocoapods  command, not part of  ruby  or  gem .
The error means there is no  pod  or  install  package in  ruby  package repository.
Solved.
To whoever removed his/her answer: It was a correct answer.
I don't know why you deleted it.
Anyhow, I am posting again in case someone stumbles here.
In your case, the sourcemap file requires http session authentication and redirects to a login page.
That endpoint requires a POST, it appears you are using GET.
Hence method not allowed.
Disclaimer: I work for Instana.
There is not much to setup.
Actually, there is no error.
After that change, everything worked as expected.
Just to close this question out for the solution to the problem in my instance.
I hope it helps.
The above might not be absolutely correct, but I hope you get the idea of why multiple parts would be deployed.
If you are not seeing the error in the current sample, I would advice make the sample higher.
To see trace data, you must send requests to your service.
The number of requests depends on Istio’s sampling rate.
You set this rate when you install Istio.
The default sampling rate is 1%.
HTTP header while sending HTTP requests to other services.
x-b3-flags ).
disable tracing for a particular request.
format.
x-datadog-sampling-priority ).
It seems like you are applying something that is super old.
The .spec.selector field defines how the Deployment finds which Pods to manage.
To my knowledge, the design of  ForkJoinPool.commonPool()  makes it impossible to actually replace that pool programmatically with an instrumented version.
So the only workaround is to do it via bytecode manipulation.
The problem actually was with the  traceContextHeaderName .
If you are, that message is probably nothing to worry.
That second part is not in the message, but apparently that's what happens.
Based on some of the hints provided by Opentelemetry Java community, created two providers which indeed creates two services.
Reusing same exporter, so that multiple connections to the backend can be avoided.
I will learn more about  reusing exporter to create two or more provides in the same application in coming days.
Thank you to amazing Opentelemetry java community - @John Watson (jkwatson), Bogdan Drutu, Rupinder Singh, Anuraag Agrawal.
Note: Make sure to modify it so that it matches Your namespaces and hosts.
Also there could be some other prometheus collisions within mesh.
The other solution would be not to have prometheus istio injected in the first place.
go run  compiles and runs the named main Go package.
Adding new functions/classes are not allowed (unless as template specializations including user defined types) - so remove  namespace std { ... }  around your program.
Also.
the  main  function should be in the global namespace.
It also looks like you've linked with a shared library  libyaml-cppd.so  - not the static library  libyaml-cpp.a .
I don't recognize the  d  in  libyaml-cppd.so  though.
I'd check if that's really the library you built.
you are using System.Configuration namespace which causes ambiguity.
i would suggest remove the using System.Configuration.
And try specifying fully qualified name for the Configuration.
visual studio would suggest possible candidates (press Ctrl .
on the Class name you want to qualify) provided you have added all required references in project already.
then the C# compiler gets confused with  Configuration  and thinks it refers to the namespace  System.Configuration .
There is no possibility of doing it in the Dockerfile if you want to keep two separate image.
How should you know in advance the name/id of the container you're going to link ?
-I  is used for  include  paths.
This ensures that all traffic, even distributed traces, are sent securely within the cluster.
In your case, you should suffix the service account with the namespace.
Whenever a proxy is started within a pod, it sends a certificate signing request to the  linkerd-identity  component and receives a certificate in return.
However, this is something you can still do programmatically.
From your list only certmanager is missing.
I am not sure why Istio doesn't automatically trace your calls to external APIs.
a span created in the local code in response to an external request.
Likewise,  span.kind=client  denotes an exit span, e.g.
a call made from the local code to another server.
Correct me, if I'm wrong.
If you mean how to find the trace-id on the server side, you can try to access the OpenTracing span by  get_active_span .
The trace-id, I suppose, should be one of the tags in it.
I had missed a key piece of documentation.
In order to get a trace ID, you have to create a span on the client side.
Again,  I can't testify to the seaworthiness of this code or anything like that.
But now it round-trips all the text.
On the specific question: you have to  Close()  the writer to get everything flushed out (a trait OpenPGP's writer shares with, say,  compress/gzip 's).
Unrelated changes: the way you're printing things is a better fit  log.Println , which just lets you pass a bunch of values you want printed with spaces in between (like, say, Python  print ), rather than needing format specifiers like  "%s"  or  "%d" .
It's also best practice to check errors (I dropped  if err != nil s where I saw a need, but inelegantly and without much thought, and I may not have gotten all the calls) and to run  go fmt  on your code.
I use  io.opentracing.contrib:opentracing-spring-rabbitmq-starter:3.0.0 .
You can find some documentation  here .
With this mechanism I achieved exactly what you asked for.
Hopefully you find this helpful.
Ugh.
I am an idiot.
These components were available in 1.4.2.
These components where merged with version 1.5 into one service named  istiod .
In 1.4.2 installation I could see grafana, jaeger, kiali, prometheus, zipkin dashboards.
But these are now missing.
These AddonComponents must be installed manually and are not part of  istioctl  since version 1.7.
So your installation is not broken.
It's just a lot has changed since 1.4.
Iv finally found the solution.
It seemed to have to do with how the reporter is started up.
Anyhow, I changed my tracer class to this.
I know there are several inactive variables here right now.
Will see if they still can be of use some how.
But none is needed right now to get it rolling.
This uniquely identifies the image build.
Tags actually resolve to digests.
So when a new image is built with the  latest  tag, that tag will then resolve to the digest of the new image.
DockerHub only shows the short version.
There are similar ideas in this zipkin/brave repo by @jeqo.
After its removal application became stable.
I don't know if those components were leaky by itself or with combination with other components but fact is that now it is stable.
This should work fine with opentelemetry-js ver.
Thank you sooo much for @BObecny's help!
This is a complement of @BObecny's answer.
Since I am more interested in integrating with Jaeger.
And it also works as expected.
jquery.limitkeypress.js has some issue with ie, I recommend you to use a more powerful library.
It works perfectly on ie.
Sorry i have not updated that plugin in a few years but...
jquery.limitkeypress  now works with IE9+ there was an issue with how the selection was determined.
This way you achieve everything you want with minimal configuration.
It looks like this is not currently possible with Cordova 3.4 when attempting to read a video file out of the application assets.
It is possible to read the file if its copied to a directory outside the application assets, or the file is stored remotely.
But not in the app assets folder any longer.
This is most likely caused by the static assets  not  being included in the binary.
You can try that out by running the binary you compiled.
You can find it at  https://github.com/WASdev/sample.opentracing.zipkintracer .
I would like to understand this configuration spec more but not able to.
There are several things that might be happening.
Help!
Something is wrong with my Jaeger installation!
So as per this config, does it mean that I'm sampling each and every trace or just the few traces randomly?
There are more ways, but I would say these are the appropriate ones.
Note: You might need to open a firewall rule for that port.
On other clouds, I don't know.
What is suggesting Stefan would work.
There are several ways of doing this.
The  port-forward  works fine on Google Cloud Shell.
If you haven't yet, check  Yuri Shkuro's OpenTracing Tutorial .
The lesson 3 is about the context propagation, including the inject and extract operations.
Here's one potential solution I found with a quick google.
There may be others.
Collectors require a persistent storage backend.
How to configure Jaeger with elasticsearch?
Great question and a very popular one too.
In short, yes, code changes are required.
The Recommended way is to create Secure acces using https instead of http.
This option covers securing the transport layer only.
Found out how.
I see..
I thought  @Traced  will be somehow propagated to my db-services/repositories.
That fixes the issue.
According to the documentation  Remotely Accessing Telemetry Addons .
There are different ways how to acces telemetry.
Additionally, here is an  example  that shows this in action.
Got it!
This is built by Jimmy Bogard and instruments NServiceBus with the required support for  Open Telemetry .
The source for this is available  here .
This will depends of the language used.
Here  is the straightforward documentation to do so in python.
You will have to write custom code.
Plus you can do push metrics as well as shown in our app insights, Prometheus and other samples.
Let's continue the conversation in our support channels?
Not sure if you are still looking for a solution for this.
See if that helps you.
You need to enable open tracing in nginx ingress controller.
Are you connecting it to only elasticsearch or stack like ELK/EFK?.
The solution was to check the "Raw Overrides" box in Spinnaker.
Here is a working example:  https://github.com/jobinesh/cloud-native-applications/tree/master/helidon-example-mp-jaeger .
According to  https://helm.sh/docs/chart_template_guide/control_structures/  a string is converted to a boolean of True.
So even a string of false would get evaluated as a Boolean of True by Helm.
I was using Spinnaker which handles all overrides as a string unless the "Raw Overrides" box is checked.
If that box is checked than it converts the string to primitives where applicable.
You need to keep double quotes as it is.
An issue has been identified similar to this [1] and has been fixed recently.
Can you try to get the latest WUM updated API Manager 3.1.0 and try enabling Jaeger open tracing?
referring to the documentation provided in below link helped to resolve the issue.
I would assume that it may not be the right way of exposing the services.
This is the simplest working example that I was able to find.
Here is a more realistic example that builds the tracer from a configuration.
get started.
Can you paste the Collector config file?
I realized that I had got into a completely wrong direction.
Read about  opentracing.spring.cloud.async.enabled  for more info.
I had the same problem.
The C# tutorial does not mention it though ...
And here is my InitTracer().
How to configure Jaeger with elasticsearch?
I finally figured this out after trying out different combinations.
In server 1, set these environment variables.
I resolved this.
It related to the sample rate.
Note : Changing ConfigMap does not apply it to deployment instantly.
Usually, you need to restart all pods in the deployment to apply new ConfigMap values.
I don't think it's possible at the moment and you should definitely ask for this feature in the mailing list, Gitter or GitHub issue.
Could you try using a more recent version of Jaeger:  https://www.jaegertracing.io/docs/latest/getting-started/#all-in-one  - actually 1.11 is now out, so could try that.
This solved my problem.
You can read more about head-based and tail-based sampling either in Chapter 3 of my book ( https://www.shkuro.com/books/2019-mastering-distributed-tracing/ ) or in the awesome paper  "So, you want to trace your distributed system?
Not sure, but it seems you miss setting the TLS for Cassandra Storage in Azure Cosmos DB.
When you use the Cassandra client to connect the Cassandra Storage in Azure Cosmos DB, it will give out the time out error, but if you enable the SSL, the connection works well.
So I think you can try to enable the TLS for Cassandra in your values.yaml following the steps in the Github which provided.
A colleague of mine provided the answer...
It was hidden in the Makefile, which hadn't worked for me as I don't use Golang (and it had been more complex than just installing Golang and running it, but I digress...).
The following .sh will do the trick.
This would only work if your spring boot application is deployed on the host network too.
It should trigger.
Have you tried looking at the logs being generated by your pods?
Changing it to jaeger-agent worked for me.
Or use this  https://github.com/opentracing-contrib/java-spring-cloud/tree/master/instrument-starters/opentracing-spring-cloud-core  starter if you want only logging integration.
How could I get the same log in console using opentracing-spring-jaeger-cloud-starter ?
I was facing similar issue.
ConnectionInfo was getting traced but not the SQL statements.
In my case, I had to enable traceWithActiveSpanOnly=true.
After that the statements started getting traced.
This is by design in Django, and it is intentionally designed in this way.
this is a parametrized way.
suppose someone has a column name with spaces like  test column name  then think what would happen.
Sorry my bad, the server urls weren't correctly passed to docker.
If you run that and send some requests to  http://localhost:8080/hello/world , you should soon see requests in the APM app in Kibana.
Data sovereignty can be a big topic for variety of industries depending on data classification.
Typically, the Chief security officer can advise if monitored data, end user application monitoring data can reside in country or not.
In the next blogs, we would take a look at the three stages of monitoring closely on the two products.
For those who are in a rush, read this(place holder) blog that summarises both the products.
While achieving observability for your systems, there are generally three approaches: DIY or Buy, or in some cases a hybrid of both.
Observability tools come in two varieties.
Open-source DIY tools and commercial offerings.
There are pros and cons to both approaches.
Open-source (OSS) tools provide users a simple way to start monitoring their applications and services.
There are plenty to choose from.
Okay, it’s 2 months to go now.
A month!
And then it began… and ended!
Just like that.
4 months were over.
I had interned at Kayako for 2 and a half months the entire summer.
Phew, time flies!
Scary.
Yet I’m happy.
$TWLO positive 3Q pre-announcement.
$DDOG announces Azure integration.
Full read on the Datadog Blog.
Why are investors so excited?
For more information about the Datadog monitor resource, check out the documentation.
Lastly, you’ll need to fill out your variables.tf file.
description = "Your service name.
Let’s take a web app as an example.
What types of metrics can we think of that directly represent its quality?
Let’s go over this by comparing two different products: A flight and hotel booking web app, like Kayak, and a social media app, like TikTok, with millions of young and impatient users.
For the booking app, the failure rate is the most important quality metric which should be as low as it can be at all times since the booking process is usually a long process and collects users’ info, travel details, and their payment info.
Response time though, on the other hand, is not as crucial, since booking processes are usually long ones that people are used to already, and collecting thousands of flight info from other search engines consumes a lot of time anyway.
This looks insightful, doesn’t it?
If you don’t change anything, will this current trend lead to a high-quality product or the opposite?
and If you need to make a change, from which areas you have to start.
Now that you know what the purpose of the script, let’s dive into its code.
...
And at the end when this is all set… Violà!
What happens when you have all 3 in your environment?
Can we get everything to play nicely together with minimum effort (no sweat or iRules)?
There are many ways to monitor F5 BIG-IP.
Then, I spun up a Fargate service / task to run the container.
I also set it to run locally with  docker-compose  as a test.
These system.io metrics are reported from a  system agent check  that uses  iostat  under the hood.
%util: Percentage of CPU time during which I/O requests were issued to the device (bandwidth utilization for the device).
Device saturation occurs when this value is close to 100%.
Of course one can also monitor other iostat metrics to identify other I/O performance failure modes.
This can be achieved in two ways.
Hope this helps.
Also, you can reach out to support@datadoghq.com if you run into any other issues in the future.
So, while trying to debug this I deleted the deployment + dameonset and service and recreated it.
Afterwards it worked....
Have you seen the  Discovering Services  docs?
I'd recommend using DNS for service discovery rather than environment variables since environment variables require services to come up in a particular order.
Once done, your code will run flawlessly.
So from that log line, it appears as though  this  try  is excepting  in the library's  hostname.py .
So either...
datadog.conf  file.
haven't already.
location (or access it, possibly related to permissions).
of the appropriate  ~/.datadog-agent/datadog.conf .
legitimate bug...
This enables the docker.container.
* metrics.
In your question, I looked for your purpose in terms of using the port 8125 or 8126 ports.
8125 port is used for stasd metrics, and 8126 is used for APM (trace) data.
So if you want to use 8125 the important thing to do is having  non_local_traffic : yes .
So there must be another problem which I don't know yet.
But if your purpose is using APM/trace port: 8126 is only bound to localhost by default.
You should make it listen to any network interface by the  bind_host: 0.0.0.0  configuration.
Currently, it will refuse the requests from your containers since they are not coming from localhost.
Still yes.
Docs for new Dashboard endpoint  here .
Varnish is slightly different as the agent retrieves metrics using the  varnishstat  binary.
In order to support monitoring a Varnish instance which is running as a Docker container we need to wrap commands (varnishstat) with scripts which perform a docker exec on the running container.
If you use devicemapper-backed storage (which is default in ECS but not in vanilla Docker or Kubernetes), docker.data.
* and docker.metadata.
* statistics should do what you are looking for.
A generic way, using the docker API but virtually running df in every container.
I think this should do what you want.
1) if the Set-Cookie header starts with ADRUM, then set the env variable ADRUM_cookie.
2) if the ADRUM_cookie env variable is /not/ set, edit the Set-Cookie header.
If we are talking about "run tool-get result" the best option -  Java Mission Control .
It's free in test environment.
You need to pay only for some features in production.
It's much better than old VisualVM.
You can write a data to file using  Flight Recorder .
You can setup start point and duration.
I think what you are wanting is info around instrumentation of the front end of an Angular SPA.
Please see documentation here:  https://docs.appdynamics.com/display/PRO21/Monitor+Single-Page+Applications  - Angular is mentioned as being available using SPA2.
Of course, confirming this depends on your application code not included in the question.
The transaction demarcation related invokes on the  Connection  will happen nevertheless.
You could use something like Spring's  LazyConnectionDataSourceProxy  (doc'ed  here ) to avoid having these sent when they are not required.
required to escape the colon and the backslash characters.
And that way you avoid the problem.
Good luck.
Add  CheckedParameter=false  in the connection string to fix the issue.
The Flow Force is deployed as two servers, which in a window env, can be started and stopped as windows services (can be found via "Control Panel" "Administrative Tools" Services).
With this information, I can monitor them via NAGIOS.
You can try adding a non-filtering predicate such as  1 = 1  to your WHERE clause.
I've read  but haven't tested that this can be used to force a hard parse, but it may be that you need to change the value (e.g.
1 = 1 ,  2 = 2 ,  3 = 3 , etc) for each execution of your query.
Here's a recursive solution that yields key "paths".
As a little modifcation to @Jon Clements code, this is what gives me what I need.
Does not require admin privileges.
How to quickly and efficiently extract text from a large logfile from input1 to input2 using powershell 5?
Sample logfile below.
What is the default text editor in Windows Server 2012 R2 Standard 64-bit?
See line 42.
What program do you have associated with .txt files?
See line 42.
How to quickly and efficiently extract text from a large logfile from line x to line y using powershell 5?
I suspect that the monitoring reports might be misleading you.
If the full GC cycles were  really  not reclaiming anything, I'd expect the behaviour to be different.
Try turning on JVM GC log message, and see what they tell you about the amount of memory that the full GC cycles are managing to reclaim.
My answer with links got deleted by another SO user so I'm listing the steps here.
and let us know how it goes.
Might be useful to some of you.
CloudForms is not trying to substitute OpenShift UI, but complement it, giving you more information about the environment and providing additional capabilities on top of OPenShift.
Android Studio will ask you to build the project with gradle.
Gradle will use the  build.gradle  inside the project.
You need put a directory called "adeum-maven-repo" in your project setup .
Whether this is an issue or not is really up to you to decide.
Here is some info on environment variables, setting your path and where to install things that I hope is useful for you to get your environment setup.
.bashrc : is specific for the  bash  shell.
.profile : is used by several shells, and was originally used by the bourne shell (from memory).
.profile  might not be loaded by bash if there is a  .bashrc  present.
Some shells read it only if there is no shell specific configuration present.
If you happen to be using a different shell, you will need to look at how best to configure environment variables for that shell.
Note that adding to the above files only effect the user that you set them for, since they live in  /home/username/ .
Also remember to source the file again, or reload the shell so that your settings take effect.
You can achieve this with something like  source .bashrc  after you edit it at the command line to avoid having to restart or reopen terminal.
If you would like to set system wide variables, you can do that in  /etc/environment .
If you would like to execute java / ant / maven, etc.
from the command line, or enable applications that require the  PATH  environment variable to be set correctly to work, you will also need to add the  ./bin  directories to your PATH.
etc.
in the relevant file.
You might check out Spring Insight.
Java Melody  might be relevant for you.
This is an issue with the AppDynamics plugin and gradle plugin tools 3.6.x.
Looks like httprequest plugin does not support uploading zip file.
This is my observation.
I think upload will use  Content-Type: multipart/form-data .
But httpRequest plugin is not supporting this type.
Could you post output from your curl?
Since you are a Spring Framework user, consider using  Spring AMQP .
The  RabbitTemplate  uses cached channels over a single connection with the channel being checked out of the cache (and returned) for each operation.
The default cache size is 1, so it generally needs to be configured for an environment like yours.
I'm leaning towards it being an issue with the number of channels and the channel cache size.
Does anyone know if there's a limit on the number of channels on a queue?
It seems like specifying connections rather than channels might help here.
I think you should use  @PersistenceContext  annotation to obtain  EntityManager  from Spring context and  @Transactional  annotation to drive your transactions.
This way you won't need to worry about closing Hibernate sessions manually, and number of connections will not increase until there are  too many connections .
The problem did not lay in the sessions but in the connection pool, sessions where being managed correctly, but the connection pool in the JDBC layer wasn't closing the connections.
These are the things that I did to fix them.
Hey there, Just crawl in to this URL.
Environment Variable Ubuntu.
Below format helped me, suggested by ewok2030 and Praveen.
Only one thing to make sure that the variable should be declared before they are used as JAVA_OPTS.
Are you sure you're not getting the FileNotFound when trying to do getInputStream on the connection later (or in your real code in case this is a simplified example)?
Since HttpUrlConnection implements http protocol and 4xx codes are error codes trying to call getInputStream generates FNF.
Instead you should call getErrorStream.
I ran your code (without the auth part) and I don't get any FilenotFoundException testing on url's that return 404.
So in this case HttpUrlConnection correctly implements the http protocol and appdynamics correctly catches the error.
We have had bad experience with slow clients in the past.
Until they have retrieved all the output, they block a thread in Tomcat.
And blocking a few dozens threads in Tomcat seriously reduces the throughput of a busy web app.
Increasing the number of threads isn't the best option as the blocked threads also occupy a considerable amount of memory.
So what you want is that Tomcat can handle a request as quickly as possible and then move on to the next request.
We have solved the problem by configuring our reverse proxy, which we always had in front of Tomcat, to immediately consume all output from Tomcat and deliver it to the client at the client's speed.
The reverse proxy is very efficient at handling slow clients.
In our case, we have used  nginx .
We also looked at  Apache httpd .
But at the time, it wasn't capable of doing it.
Clients that unexpectedly disconnect also look like slow clients to the server as it takes some time until it has been fully established that the connection is broken.
You need to set Multi-Release to true in the jar's MANIFEST.MF.
to the configuration section of your assembly configuration.
You could also use the jar plugin to create your jar.
View SQL queries: Including SQL parameters, affected records and how long it took to download the result set.
Start the application and run jconsole on the PID.
While its running look at the heap in the console.
When it near maxes get a heap dump.
Download Eclipse MAT and parse the heap dump.
Note that the CMS collector which you are using is actually slower than the default one; its advantage is only that it doesn't &quot;stop the world&quot; as much.
It may not be the best choice for you.
But you do look to either have a memory leak, or a general issue in program design.
Are you always waiting for GC to take care of removing unused references?
Is there some places in your application that you know a reference to a heavy weight object won't be used anymore from that point, but it is not manually nulled?
Perhaps setting such heavy weight objects to null manually at the right places could prevent them growing till they hit the end of the heap....
When JVM reaches heap maximum size, GC is called more frequently to prevent OOM exception.
Normal program execution should not happen at such circumstances.
When a new object is allocated and JVM cant get enough of free space, GC is called.
This might postpone object allocation process and thus slowdown overall performance.
Garbage collection happens not concurrently in this case and you do not benefit from CMS collector.
Try to play with  CMSInitiatingOccupancyFraction , its default value is about 90%.
The migration took about 3h due to the very low performance of the source disk (GP2).
Hope it may help someone out there!
We never were able to properly solve the issue but at some point it vanished.
If I'm not wrong one the client change the appdynamics configuration / removed it which seemed to have solved the issue.
did you take a look to this google group ticket issue?
Here in particular looks the reason of the issue.
Have you tried to Minify your code?
Minifying unneccesary characters from your code without removing any functionality.
This could help speed up the download times.
In Criteria-tab use &quot;Single Metric&quot; with  Sum  of &quot;Calls per Minute&quot; and define your threshold.
The Drop-off rate is the percentage of user sessions which reach the specific page and then end their session (they do not reach any further pages as part of the session and therefore &quot;drop-off&quot; the map).
Yes - you can do this using ADQL / Analytics searches (assuming you have this licensed).
Note: There are already many &quot;Standard Reports&quot; which could make things easier depending on use case.
The main page includes a summary of what is available.
Business transactions should accomplish this.
If you want to report on each web service you can build a report or custom dashboard.
AFAIK the critical point for AppDynamics (or profilers like that) it is essential to find an entry point.
Usually the prefered way is to have an Servlet "Endpoint" that starts a threat and can be followed.
For the scenario you are describing this wouldn't work as it's missing the "trigger" to start the following.
Most likely you'll need to build your own app-dynamics monitoring extension for it.
By default much of the Apache stuff is excluded.
Try adding Call Graph Settings (Configure    Instrumentation    Call Graph Settings), to include specific transports, like org.apache.camel.component.file.
Due to its proprietary nature i don't think the internals are available for anyone to view or discuss.
Below link might give an idea of how the product works at a high level.
You are on the right track, but you are not saying that you are having errors or showing the.
Yet, based on your experience to date, I am sure you already know that PowerShell provides cmdlets for working with XML.
--- and install the one(s) that fit your needed goals.
And of course there are lot's of examples and videos on the topic.
Searching for 'PowerShell working with XML', gives you plenty of hits.
For the most part, what you will find is very similar to what you already have posted.
Yet, you say you want add nodes / elements, but that is not in your post, so, something like the below should help.
Or even just using the  WebAdministration module  on the IIS server directly.
What it can’t do is the newer stuff like “multiple business application” and “custom node name” configuration.
I have a main Spring boot application and another spring based jar file(my own) which is included as a dependency in main Spring boot project.
When I add add custom context &amp; indexed labels from main Spring boot project , elastic APM console does shows up that trace data.
However , when I write some tracing code inside ( adding index label or adding custom context) inside that spring based project which is then included as a jar libaray inside my spring boot project , that is not shown up on console.
Does this mean I can only instrument only main project and not instrument included jar library&gt; I have configured packages for both main spring boot project as well included spring dependency.
Any help is highly appreciated.
What is the right way to configure/enable an Elastic APM agent in a Nuxtjs project?
I referred  this documentation  for a custom NodeJS app.
modules in your Node.js application - i.e.
router etc.
I added the following snippet in nuxt.config.js, but the APM agent is not started or working.
I do not see any errors in the app logs.
Is there any other way to do this?
any idea to resolve this ?
What am I missing?
sudo java -jar apm-agent-attach-standalone.jar --include '.
1.Which is the right way to use the configuration options in command line?
sudo java -jar apm-agent-attach-standalone.jar --include '.
It shows access denied exception ... How to fix this?
for the code below I wanted to create a new tab which would store all the external method calls and would be aggregated, but I am not getting any such results.
I created an encrypted bag with name datadog with an item datadog_keys inside of it.
I would like to get api key and app key from inside of this data bag item.
I would expect to see  test_metric:1|c  show up in the output of terminal 1, but there is no output at all.
Can you help me understand why the udp message is not showing up and how to successfully send the udp message?
I'm running DataDog agent as a container within my AWS CoreOS instance.
This is done via running dd-agent as a container.
To automate this I have written a systemd unit for enabling and running data dog agent within AWS CoreOS instance.