UX Strategy Workshop — What I learnt!
Kanika Gupta
Kanika Gupta
Follow
Nov 13, 2019 · 6 min read





In an organization, we keep hearing about Marketing strategy, Product Strategy, Sales Strategy etc. but UX Strategy is relatively new to the industry (especially the Enterprise world).
What is UX Strategy? Why it matters? What value does it add in the organization? These were the few questions I always had in mind. I started looking for avenues that can help me understand this term better. And then stumbled upon the workshop by one and only J. Spool.
Jared M. Spool is the founder of User Interface Engineering, the largest usability research organization of its kind in the world. He’s probably the most effective and knowledgeable communicator on the User Experience subject today. He’s been working in the field of usability and experience design since 1978 before the term “usability” was ever associated with computers.
Day 1 — While I was approaching the venue, could see a face that looked familiar. As I went close, found Jared standing near the elevator. I was thrilled to see him and knew this was my ‘fan’ moment. We spoke for a brief period and he thanked me for travelling ~5000 miles (from Bengaluru) to attend his workshop in Manchester, UK. I was humbled!
Day 1 started with a rule — ‘None of the things we learn here is going to be easy’.

Understanding the term ‘Strategy’ — It’s a Military term. A path to reach the outcome. A long game that consists of many tactics.
UX Strategy — It’s an action plan to muster all the UX expertise, knowledge & resources to help our organizations create better-designed products & services.
These are the three essential components of any UX strategy: the improvement to the users’ experience, the benefit delivered to the organization, and the resources required to achieve success.
Few good UX Strategy plays to adopt:
Building an Experience Vision

A story describing what will the experience of our customers might look like in future. It’s a flag on the horizon that everybody can see and march towards. Take an example of Apple’s 1987 Knowledge Navigator:

Apple’s Experience Vision — Knowledge Navigator (1987)
In this video, the team showed the story of a Professor who is preparing for a lecture and needs some interesting research data to present to the students. In this short video, they made use of an assistant, video conferencing with a friend on a compact device; discussing effectively and transferring the data seamlessly to create a report. Professor who is unprepared before the call manages to finish his job in just 5 mins. This was envisioned when people were frustrated with the 1987 technology without internet. The vision gave direction to the entire company to march towards the flag and we can see the result in the form of iPad (2010), Siri (2012).
Creating Experience Vision:
First step is to assess the current experience of our product or service and identify the frustration points of our users.
Cost of frustrations:
- Lost sales
- Increased costs (because of support)
- Waste from rework
- Waste from unused work (no adoption)
Then think ‘What could be the best experience for our users, when we remove all these frustrations’. This is the aspiration where we want to reach.
Next up to determine the timeframe of the horizon. Ideally, 5 years of the horizon is a good time to think, as we can move away from legacy systems and use currently available technology that hasn’t made it into our users’ experiences. Eg: ML/AI, Voice commands. This also reduces the risk of turning the project into a science fiction.
Remember, Vision helps us see ‘Potential’ of a solution than ‘Blind spots’.
2. Going beyond the UX Tipping point

As an organisation, we need to identify where do we stand in terms of UX growth stages (maturity):

Growth stages of Organizational UX Design
The UX Tipping Point is the moment when an organization no longer compromises on well-designed user experiences. Before they hit the tipping point, they might talk about great design, but they’ll still ship a mediocre experience. However, once they’ve passed it, design has become an embedded part of their culture and DNA. Eg: Honeywell (Established company) vs. Nest (Startup). Honeywell mainly thought in terms of features and not end-to-end experience of the user. Nest, on the other hand, always had Design infused in their culture that thought in terms of user pain points and solved user problems. Google bought Nest in 2014.



3. Strengthening & Growing the UX Team

Staffing is as important as the design itself. For this, team skills need to be assessed. For an organization to move beyond the UX Tipping Point, it must first become literate in user experience, then fluent in how to produce great experiences. This doesn’t happen all at once, it can take years. However, if it never happens, the organization won’t make it beyond the tipping point.
Skills are not equal to Roles. If a PM wants to take up Research skills, it is advantageous for an organization as the idea of a specialist is luxury to few companies. They might want to have people on the team with the breadth of knowledge in few areas and depth in few (a T-shaped person).





4. Thinking differently — Reframing

Strategy is not just about doing things differently but also thinking about things differently. We need to reframe a few terms that we are accustomed to using in a particular way.
From Requirements → to Assumptions/Hypothesis: We need to treat requirements as assumptions and validate them.
SMEs from User Advocates → to Translator/Guides: We need to ask SMEs to help us identify the details that we wouldn’t have known otherwise, in User Research sessions.
From Output → to Outcome: We need to think in terms of outcomes that bring change to the world than just thinking about deliverables like mockups.
From Features → to Problems to solve: We need to include ‘Problems to solve’ in the Product roadmap that adds value to customers’ life than adding features that we tend to think in terms of Solutions.
From Inferences → to Observations: We need to treat Inferences as hypothesis and validate with Research to turn into Observations.