How to Send Stats to Datadog with Discord.js and Hotshots
Aditya Nath Tripathi
Aditya Nath Tripathi

Oct 18, 2018·2 min read




Hey everyone, so I recently made a Statistics Dashboard for my Discord Bot named PenguBot on Datadog using Discord.js and Hot-shots (Node.js Library for Datadog). When I shared it, a lot of people showed interest in how they can do it themselves. So today I’ll go step by step and tell you how to replicate my results which look something like this:

Okay so let’s get started!
Create a Free Account on Datadog by visiting https://datadoghq.com
Now install their Agent onto your VPS or VM by finding the appropriate instructions at https://app.datadoghq.com/account/settings#agent
Okay once you’ve done that successfully let’s link Datadog with your Discord Bot.
- To do this firstly install hot-shots by doing npm i hot-shots
- Now let’s setup hot-shots by adding the following code to your client file:
const { StatsD } = require(“hot-shots”);
client.on(“ready”, client => {
client.dogstats = new StatsD("localhost", 8125)
});
Note: If you already have a custom client structure where you can define things inside your Client’s Constructor, just simply add the require statement at the top of the file and this.dogstats = new StatsD("localhost", 8125) inside the Constructor itself.
4. Now we’ll refer to yourbot as the main variable that we will use in our code for guildCreate and guildDelete events.
5. Inside guildCreate and guildDelete add the corresponding code.
// guildCreate
this.client.dogstats.increment(“yourbot.guildcreate”);
// guildDelete
this.client.dogstats.increment(“yourbot.guilddelete”);
Note: I will not be going over on adding those fancy graphs, if you want an in-depth tutorial for those, let me know.
Important: Those variables won’t show up in Datadog Dashboard if they’re not emitted at least once.
6. Now Login to Datadog and click on “Dashboards”, create a new “Timeboard” and add a “Query Value” for Guilds Added
Inside Metric put: yourbot.guildcreate.
Now change “Take the Average” below The Metric to “Take the Sum”.
After that under “Units and formatting” change Autoscale to Off and Decimal to 0
7. Repeat the same by adding another “Query Value” for Guilds Removed and follow the 6th step further down but just change the Metric to: yourbot.guilddelete and you’re done.
8. To add colors as I have, edit the query value and change “Conditional Format” by removing everything and adding a new Rule which says if metric > 0 then make it green and so on and so forth. It’s easy to figure out from there.
If you have confusions or questions, hit me up on my Discord and ask me questions there.
Thank you for reading, I’ll keep updating and adding more information to this article but this is about it for now!