Step By Step with Pictures: Installing the Datadog AWS Integration and Setting up a Dashboard
Garrett Sweeney
Garrett Sweeney
Follow
Feb 27 · 4 min read





You too can use Datadog to monitor your applications!
The following is my step-by-step experience following the Datadog documentation on how to set up an AWS integration. I recommend reading their docs for the latest up-to-date information, but thought it was worthwhile to share my successful installation!
First I navigated to https://app.datadoghq.com/

The Datadog Quick Start
Next, I hovered over Integrations on the left and selected “Integrations”.

The Integrations option is on the left
Then I hovered over the AWS Integration that I had installed when originally setting up the account and clicked “Configure”.

Select the Amazon Web Services Integration
I then selected the blue “Add another account” button. (For context, I had installed this integration during account setup but ended up removing the account. So for this step, the integration was installed but no account was configured).

Add another account from this view
I then selected the blue “Automatically Using CloudFormation” button.

This presents an option to install with CloudFormation
This took me to the AWS Console and loaded the Datadog Cloudformation stack. Be sure to change the region if you want to deploy the stack in a different region. Simply picking a different region presented the same “Quick create stack” page.

Creating the Stack requires you to input the API Key
To get the DdApiKey, I went back to the Datadog page and selected the “Datadog API key” link that now appeared in the New Account window.

I went back to this page to figure out where my API Key could be found
This took me to my API Keys page, where I copied the API key behind the purple box.

Copy your API Key over to the CloudFormation stack
I copied the API key over into the CloudFormation stack parameters and pasted it in the DdAPIKey field. I then scrolled to the bottom, checked the checkboxes, and selected “Create stack”.

Accept the terms (only if you want to) and create the Stack
Cloudformation began to spin up the stack and I could see the CREATE_IN_PROGRESS Status for the “datadog” Stack.

CloudFormation is hard at work
When the Stack completed, I saw that the one CloudFormation template created 3 nested templates.

Not 1, not 2, but 3 Nested CFN templates!
I then selected the datadog-DatadogIntegrationRoleStack-* Stack and, under the Resources tab, identified that the integration IAM role was named DatadogIntegrationRole .

Here’s the Integration Role Stack
I then went back to the AWS Integration page and updated my AWS Account ID and the role name, as specified.
As soon as I finished typing, Datadog tried to access my account via the Assumed Role. Unfortunately, I ran into a small error where Datadog could not assume the role.

Uh Oh, something might be wrong with the IAM Role
Datadog is not authorized to perform: sts:AssumeRole on resource: arn:aws:iam::00123456789:role/DatadogIntegrationRole. See https://docs.datadoghq.com/integrations/amazon_web_services/
Not to fear, this error appears in the Datadog FAQ docs: Error: Datadog is not authorized to perform sts:AssumeRole

Following the steps, I just updated the AWS External ID value and gave it some time. Note: Be sure to give it enough time! I reached out for support but came back to this an hour later and the connection was working.

I was sure to evaluate the integration role and verify that the Account and Condition were correct
Hooray! Datadog is now connecting to the AWS Account.

Nice! Datadog is pulling data from your account
The next step was to move over the “Collect Logs” tab and add the arn of a Lambda in my account I wanted to monitor.

Add a Lambda that you’d like to monitor via Datadog
I entered the Lambda’s arn, and also selected some general services below via checkbox.

I also checked some other general services for experimentation
I then went back to the Dashboard tab on the left (above the integration tab) and viewed the dashboard lists.

Wow, Datadog has so many turnkey dashboards
Finally, I scrolled down and selected “AWS Lambda” and could see the data for my Lambda!

Nice, my Lambda metrics look good!
Overall, a really nice experience with helpful documentation. Next, I’ll probably create some custom dashboard views for my applications.
If you have a question, feel free to leave a comment, and be sure to check out the Datadog Documentation!