COVID-19 Hackathon: Pitch Your Pandemic App Ideas
Fairwinds
Fairwinds

Apr 3, 2020·2 min read





We are living in unprecedented times. Our lives have been turned upside down as we all attempt to balance our unique set of circumstances. That’s why our inspiring team at Fairwinds launched the COVID-19 Hackathon.
While we are not on the front lines fighting COVID-19, we want to do our part to contribute to the common good by finding solutions that make an impact. Working behind the scenes with the tremendous talent and innovation that exists in the Kubernetes engineering and developer community, Fairwinds, working with AWS, Datadog and GitLab, has announced a competition to encourage innovative thinkers to create Kubernetes-based web application ideas to address the pandemic.
Project Proposals
Starting immediately and running through April 10, 2020, people with ideas in the United States can pitch their project proposals for consideration. Proposals can be projects already underway or completely new ideas, though all entries must help address at least one of the following.
Reduce the Spread of COVID-19
Find a Cure for the Virus
Educate the Public on COVID-19
Rebuild the Economy
Hackathon Voting and Winners
Representatives from Fairwinds, AWS, GitLab and Datadog will judge the competition and vote on a solution, which will be announced on April 15, 2020. Application development will be open to the public to start immediately after. Sponsoring companies will provide the following to the winning project as they move from idea to tangible solution:
AWS will be offering six months of application hosting support*
GitLab will be where the project lives
Datadog will be offering free monitoring for six months*
Fairwinds will be offering free Kubernetes managed services for six months*
Project ideas may be submitted immediately by going to the following GitLab link and following the submission directions: http://covidhack.org/.
* Timeframes may adjust depending on variables of winning project
Fairwinds — The Kubernetes Enablement Company
ClusterOps Managed Kubernetes — ClusterOps is a fully-managed Kubernetes cluster management tool that integrates infrastructure as code, open source software, and SRE expertise as a subscription service.
ClusterOps Kubernetes Advisory — ClusterOps Advisory integrates Kubernetes expertise and open source software so you can confidently run reliable, scalable, and secure Kubernetes clusters.
Fairwinds Insights — We integrate trusted tools, collaboration workflows, and expertise into a single monitoring platform, so workloads always stay secure, reliable, and efficient.