A Blah Review of ‘Pacific Rim: Uprising’
Chris Friebus
Chris Friebus

Apr 6, 2018·4 min read





As a kid I loved Voltron, an anime about a giant robot fighting giant monsters. I also love Robotech, another animated show that featured a city sized spaceship that could turn into a giant robot. So why is it I just can’t buy into the giant robots and monsters of ‘Pacific Rim: Uprising’?
This is the sequel to Guillermo Del Toro’s ‘Pacific Rim’, and honestly I didn’t buy into the original either. This movie gives us a quick refresher on what happened in that one. Kaiju, the giant monsters, emerge out of an interdimensional rift at the bottom of the Pacific Ocean. In response, we humans create giant robots known as Jaegers, so massive it takes two pilots to operate them. That right there, the two pilots thing, just never jived with me. The pilots have to be “rift compatible”, because they kinda mind meld together which allows them to control the jaeger in sync. We are told this is because the sheer size of a jaeger would melt the brain of a single pilot. So the sheer feat of designing this massive robot was doable, but they just couldn’t crack the nut of piloting? And instead they went with what seems like the most difficult route possible by not only creating a mind meld, but then making it where compatibility was an issue? I know this is all first film problems, but I couldn’t swallow it then and I can’t with this one either.
Now I could maybe suspend my disbelief with the mind meld aspect, but ‘Uprising’ throws down a whopper almost right from the start. This young girl (maybe 16 or so?) has built her own mini jaeger in a wharehouse by salvaging scrap parts off other downed jaegers. By herself. Without seemingly the aid of so much as a fork lift. This thing stands at least 30 feet tall, has massive steel plates all over it, not to mention the complexities of its mechanics and electronics. And she built it. Riiiiiiight.
I get what they were going for here. This is the kid building the hot rod in the garage, but it’s the scale of things that completely throws logic out the window. The car analogy carries into another aspect of the movie. Through a series of circumstances, this girl winds up at a base where true jaegers are, and she stands in awe of them, calling out there names. It’s as if she is saying “wow, a Lamborghini Diablo, and there’s a Shelby Cobra, and that’s a Ferrari!” except it we the audience have no clue why she is so enamored by Gypsy Avenger, Guardian Bravo, Bracer Phoenix, or Saber Athena. The movie wants these jaegers to be characters, but to me they were just the one with a turbine in the chest, the one with a ball mace for a hand, etc.
But fine, what are we here watching this movie for? Robot versus monster fights. And the movie gives us those. Actually if you watch the trailers for this movie, you’ll see extended glimpses of every single one of these fights. There literally isn’t a single surprise to be had because of those trailers. Once more, suspension of disbelief got too much for me as while battling amongst buildings, the cities get practically leveled. We see shots of people running in the streets, but there’s some serious amount of civilian casualty going on that nobody in command or in the jaegers cares one bit about. Lately the Marvel and DC movies have shined a light on this aspect, and it’s hard to go back to dismissing it in the name of cool looking destruction shots.
Even more on the “nope, that’s just not believable” scale is when a monster or jaeger comes out of water near Santa Monica pier and Sydney Harbor. No wake, no waves, they just arrive right there at the shore. In the case of Santa Monica, I know the water is nowhere deep enough to have hidden a kaiju as massive as the one that emerges. Yeah, that’s the kind of stuff I started thinking about while watching this because honestly there’s not a single three dimensional character in the movie to focus on. It’s rebellious teen, angry Russian, hot shot pilot, reluctant pilot, and nothing more. When some die, I couldn’t have cared less. This movie is very obviously crafted for an international audience, so maybe they figured basic character tropes would be enough. But as you can tell by this point of my review, I haven’t even mentioned the names of characters or the actors, because they just don’t matter. It’s all about the robots, except I couldn’t connect with those either.
With this type of movie, what you see is what you get. ‘Pacific Rim: Uprising’ promises robot on monster action, and it’s there on display for you. For me, the problem is it became mind numbing noise and empty spectacle. It’s not well thought out sci-fi, it’s what a 10 year old would plot with their robot toys. I was hoping more for what a mature adult would plot with those same toys.