AppDynamics Announces Winter '16 Release!AppDynamics continues making strides in the Application Performance Management space, and a Dec. 1, 2015 announcement at AppSphere 2015 highlights AppDynamics’ innovation.
AppDynamics Introduces Support for SAPAppDynamics, a Cisco company and leader in application intelligence, has officially announced the availability of AppDynamics for SAP - an application performance management solution that provides the deepest visibility from code-level insights to customer taps, swipes and clicks — helping enterprises deliver the flawless experiences their customers demand.
With the SAP platform currently handling 77% of global transactions revenue, it only seems natural for the development team at AppDynamics to build compatibility for SAP.
ABAP Code-level Diagnostics —Through AppDynamics’ Business Transactions and its groundbreaking native ABAP agent monitoring, enterprises have insights into SAP environments like never before.
By automatically detecting SAP Business Transactions and baselining performance, AppDynamics for SAP provides more insight and visibility into downstream dependencies, giving enterprises the confidence to adopt S/4HANA.
According to Gartner, AppDynamics is the current leader in their 2018 Magic Quadrant for Application Performance Monitoring (APM) Suites.
AppDynamics Debuts New Microservices APM SolutionAppDynamics just got even better.
Recently, the powerful performance management solution announced a new APM for microservices.
The growing trend in software development is a shift to microservices, and breaking down applications into multiple, and smaller sections.
Notably, a press release on the AppDynamics website notes that the advent of tech advancements such as Internet of Things (IoT) devices will create an upsurge in microservices.
Get Into the Cloud: AppDynamics at Amazon Web Services re:InventThe AppDynamics and Amazon Web Services (AWS) relationship grows stronger each year, with marquee joint customers such as Nasdaq.
Our Application Intelligence Platform continues to evolve enabling enterprises to manage their cloud applications more efficiently and gain complete visibility and control into an expanded set of AWS services, with an exclusive 60 day free trial for AWS customers.AppDynamics at AWS re:InventOctober 6 – 9, 2015AWS re:Invent, the Amazon Web Services annual user conference, is the Mecca for the AWS community.
AppSphere is AppDynamics’ annual user conference — we’re focusing on enabling businesses to bring a competitive advantage to market and driving success to their organizations.
As many enterprises are migrating or deploying their new applications in the AWS Cloud, it is important to have deeper insight and control over the applications and the underlying infrastructure in order to ensure they can deliver exceptional end-user experience.AppDynamics offers the same performance monitoring, management, automated processes, and analytics for applications running on AWS that are available for applications running on-premises.
SQS makes it simple and cost-effective to decouple the components of a cloud application.
AppDynamics Hosts 'Gearing Up For High Performance During Holiday Season' Webinar on Oct. 22, 2015When it comes to performance, web performance and mobile app are two of the most important aspects for both retailers and consumers.
Luckily, application monitoring has you covered.
AppDynamics Releases Microservices IQ Monitoring ToolOn Aug. 1, AppDynamics announced their summer release of their App iQ intelligent monitoring platform, which includes user engagement and business transaction monitoring, as well as system diagnostics.
As Matt Chotin put it, it's easier to use a less intelligent solution that tracks these individual pieces, but being able to corral that information together is ultimately more useful, so users can get a bigger picture of an application's health.
One does not have to be a developer or sysadmin to get a clear picture of application health.
The product is geared to be useful to stakeholders without technical backgrounds.
User experience and usage is obviously incredibly important.
If a user can't access the system, it can lead to a whole mess of problems for everyone involved.
Get end-to-end visibility into your Python application environment: First of all you need to have a way to understand your application topology and dependencies on other web services, applications, databases and underlying infrastructure.
You should be able to prioritize application performance issues based on the business impact of the transaction.
Monitor Applications at code-level depth: You need to have a strategy and tools in place to get in-depth application monitoring that allows you to drill down to the application code details visually.
You should be able to easily locate hot spots and slow methods within your application code drilling down from the end user experience.
You need to have a way to understand how database performance is impacting your overall application.
Correlate your Python application performance with underlying infrastructure: Finally, you need to understand infrastructure resource consumption in the context of application performance and end-user experience.
AppDynamics recently introduced the Application Performance Management (APM) solution that addresses all of the above and a lot more for applications developed in Python.
With today's release of AppDynamics 3.0, they're showing companies the value of a new approach - memory leak detection and root cause diagnostics in the production environment.
On the user monitoring front, iOS, Android, and JavaScript support is included with both tools.
AppDynamics and NewRelic each offer 4 approaches here: Application Performance Management High level metrics with drill downs to code level data about how your application is performing.
Bottom line: Beyond the shared database metrics that go a bit deeper with AppDynamics, it’s worth looking into the features available for your specific database within each tool.
Bottom line: AppDynamics provides deeper insights into garbage collection and memory leak detection beyond the standard metrics.
This ongoing trend has given rise to improvements in customer service, where interactions are delivered across multiple digital channels, ranging from social channels like Twitter and Facebook to text and voice communications.
Increasing IT Agility With Application Performance MonitoringNow more than ever, IT teams need an application performance management (APM) solution to monitor applications and ensure flawless customer experiences.
With built-in intelligence, our teams could proactively detect application performance and availability issues across 160-plus applications.
We also saw an increase in the number of tickets being resolved, as well as a decrease in the number of false positives, with faster ticket resolution and better communication with third-party application providers.
Now, we’ve transformed the ability of our IT team to optimize performance and deliver proactive support for MyWipro with the implementation of AppDynamics.
Where we were once having difficulty keeping pace with MyWipro’s increasing volume of traffic, we are now able to stay on top of it with ease, as well as easily handle the large extent of Wipro’s IT infrastructure.
What’s more, we finally saw an increase in the compliance level for SLAs on ticket resolution and the compliance on specific SLAs related to response times.
This year, AppSphere will be focused on helping you grow and thrive in a software-defined world.
We’ll provide actionable best practices around adapting business methodologies, utilizing game-changing IT tools, and strengthening relationships with customers that will give you a competitive advantage in the marketplace.Be sure to follow AppDynamics for updates, and look out for sweet opportunities to win AppD swag or a deluxe suite at the Cosmo.
Extending AppDynamics App iQ Platform: Microservices iQ extends AppDynamics' existing App iQ Platform that enables enterprises to deliver performance that exceeds the scale, sophistication, and velocity expectations of today’s customers.
The platform is the foundation to AppDynamics' customers' success and powered by intelligent Application Performance Engines.
These intelligent performance engines work in concert to help ensure enterprises can deliver peak performance across any application, user engagement, and business transaction.The new Microservices iQ capabilities enhance the core Appdynamics Platform that is already designed to provide end-to-end visibility into agile application infrastructure where microservices are deployed.
AppDynamics also leveraged the analysis results to help formulate the best ways to empower Agents of Transformation.
Use of the AppDynamics Real-Time Application and Business Intelligence platform is intended to ensure that applications always perform, and that decisions around technology and the software delivery lifecycle are always based on the right factual and contextual insights.
That in-memory platform delivered amazing computing power capable of simplifying the infrastructure of application environments while giving the business real-time insight.
The business impact derived with the right information at the right time is staggering to the point that customers have been willing to pay SAP handsomely for these capabilities.
Companies can drive huge revenue increases, save millions in cost, and reduce their risk substantially by better leveraging their data assets.
As these applications become increasingly critical to the business, it’s more important than ever to have a simple, yet fast way to monitor, diagnose, and resolve application problems before they affect revenue.
SummaryApplication owners need to be able to have the insight to gain real-time information of how their customers are using mobile and web applications while understanding how their applications drive revenue and create brand loyalty.
Out of the box, AppDynamics delivers key performance metrics in a helpful sharable dashboard, however, you can also create customized dashboards so various teams can see the metrics that matter most to them.SummaryIT Ops teams have more responsibility today than ever before.
Tools that help resolve issues quickly and gain visibility into a complex environment can become a key partner in overcoming this obstacle.
The goal is releasing better software more rapidly, and keeping said software up and running by joining development and operational responsibilities together.
This is extremely beneficial as many teams have different ways of collecting data, which can traditionally lead to inconsistencies.
They allow users to automatically discover and tag a business transaction’s performance with tagging.
The key to that is being proactive, and avoiding performance issues before going live in production.
They not only allow us to troubleshoot performance problems faster – they also allow us to perfect this code.
Because both of these values can be tuned, it can benefit you to tune them.Out-of-the-box, AppDynamics captures the entire stack trace while trimming any granularity below the configured threshold.
They’re expecting it to do great things for customer experience, productivity, costs and profitability, and speed of application delivery.
It focuses on the business transaction as the essential unit of measurement, and recognizes business stakeholders as essential members of the team.
Similarly, in order to measure the performance of an asynchronous transaction correctly, you will need to compute and track the end-to-end latency of an asynchronous transaction rather than the response time of initiating the client request.AppDynamics discovers asynchronous transactions, computes the end-to-end latency of the transaction and uses this metric to track business transaction performance.
To stay ahead of the competition, retailers need to move to an agile operating model.
This is essential because with the right management solutions it allows for a fast Mean Time To Resolution (MTTR) of application performance issues and enables teams to work together when developing or enhancing application offerings.Securing 5 star rated mobile apps.
The number of apps in use is growing by day meaning highly responsive, convenient and usable apps are a must to secure 5 star app ratings.Correlating application and customer experience data.
Figure 2: AppDynamics Flowmap of  Hybris based retail commerce applicationAppDynamics delivers a comprehensive solution to help retailers maximize their business performance.
This means that ensuring flawless performance and optimizing customer experience is critical to retail success.
Another trend that makes the equation all the more complex is IT is delivering more and more modular applications at faster and faster rates making the entire application ecosystem very dynamic and highly error-prone.
Therefore you need an overview of your whole IT stack, which will be created using existing data from your available tools.
All the developers need to do is add the New Relic agent to the app they’re developing, and New Relic will automatically extract platform-specific metrics, whether in Java, Node, PHP, etc.
test automation tools and platforms definitely enable teams to resolve the issues faster and in a much more efficient manner by reducing the overall testing efforts.
These applications need to provide seamless customer experience in terms of fast performance and customer satisfaction with their interactions on almost all popular devices and platforms.
With well-designed and orchestrated Digital Assurance practices integrated with the DevOps cycle, organizations can fine-tune and supercharge application performance as well as customer experience quite quickly and can secure ‘Pole Position’ in the long run.
For this reason, Real User Monitoring (RUM) tools are essential for identifying performance problems and their environments.
Many companies are suffering from a case of too much monitoring, which can lead to less useful information.While it might seem counterintuitive, application performance monitoring is a space where less is more.
We believe in using automation to empower your people to solve bigger problems.We provide a suite  of proprietary apps in our internet performance management platform.
Expect a huge second mover advantage in the world of app development because you can be prepared to address the server traffic spikes, the user privacy issues, and the public safety controversies.The days of actual immersive virtual reality, complete with a 3D experience, might not be far off, but preparation is everything, especially with app developers, programmers, and IoT experts.
Ensure data stored in cache is in the format required to be presentation layer.
unless you work hard on optimizing it, simple logging will only take you this far.
so the release cycles are cutting down and log files are becoming larger, but that’s not all: the number of user requests grows exponentially and they all expect peak performance.
consider using an incident management system to handle information overload.
Look for ones that integrate well with your existing tool stack, as you’ll need the monitoring tool to be able to gather and interpret data directly from your existing sources.
By choosing service level indicators with the highest customer impact, SLOs can safely empower development to accelerate.
In this way, automation facilitates rapid dissemination of expertise across an organization, enabling teams to keep pace as demands on their time and skills increase.
This approach is infinitely better, no shelling out or wrapping tools, and you already have all your favorite frameworks, libraries,  test harnesses, and tooling at your fingertips.
Without carefully monitoring key metrics like uptime, network load, and resource usage, you’ll be blind to where to spend development efforts or refine operation practices.
This will allow you to develop your architecture around the monitoring tool, rather than having to retrofit existing code.
The goal is to drive the detection and diagnosis of application performance issues to ensure services perform at expected levels.
No matter what monitoring tools you ultimately use, you’ll want to make the most of the data they provide in the context of a larger reliability solution that drives actionability.
They have achieved this rapid release cadence while supporting the safe and reliable operation of their applications; in turn allowing them to respond more effectively to their customers’ needs.
In enterprise deployments, it is imperative to break the link between a user and the daemon, ensuring that only authorized users can complete authorized tasks against Docker.
In addition, knowing what is happening in your environment is paramount, knowing what containers are running vs what containers you expect to be running is key to ensure that you are not exposed to any “crypto-jacking” exploits where hackers gain access to an insecure Docker daemon and start bitcoin miners on your Docker Hosts.
There are many tools that help the migration to microservices, such as Spring Boot and Microprofile, both of which simplify the development of standalone apps in a microservices architecture.
Legacy apps should be migrated to independent, loosely coupled services through gradual decomposition, by splitting off capabilities using a strangler pattern.
In addition, retail customers are looking for a blended online and in-store experience and expecting brick-and-mortar stores and online channels to be integrated through an omni-channel strategy.
The automated system collects all the data needed and saves your team from doing it manually.
Its main goal is to make the cloud migration an easy and a smooth process.
Microservices architecture is becoming the most preferred architectural and development strategies.
The advantages of building and running software with this architecture outweigh the disadvantages.
Building highly efficient autonomous "small" teams to deliver new services or features faster, this means you do not have to wait for the long release cycle, you release features as soon as they are ready.
Increased productivity and speed of deliverables.
Isolated development approach results in highly independently deployable service, and testable service.
Managing and maintaining tests for the microservice is easier since the scope is limited to the service capabilities, automated testing for unit testing, regression testing as well as performance testing can be achieved easily.
The best suitable technologies can be leveraged to build specific microservices.
Teams can be spread across geography.
Microservices are easier to build and deploy; specifically on container platform, the resource utilization is optimized.
Cloud platforms provide many capabilities and tools to work with.
A fully managed system on cloud platforms is serverless.
Cloud-based serverless technologies are a big boost to companies smaller or larger to move their small functions/code like nano services, asynchronous jobs, scheduled jobs, integration of cloud services with on-premises.
It’s a pretty well-known and accepted fact that application performance monitoring is a must.
Many companies are suffering from a case of too much monitoring, which can lead to less useful information.While it might seem counterintuitive, application performance monitoring is a space where less is more.
The point of monitoring is to locate, identify, and prevent problems.
Increased complexity of systems means that simpler monitoring solutions are needed.
Nearly a quarter of apps are only opened once.Many enterprises are using AppDynamics to avoid such catastrophic situations and to minimize the negative impact on their brand reputation.
With AppDynamics, they are empowered to have real-time insights into application performance, user performance, and business performance so they can move faster in an increasingly sophisticated, software-driven world.
Expect a huge second mover advantage in the world of app development because you can be prepared to address the server traffic spikes, the user privacy issues, and the public safety controversies.
with that said, dedicated application performance management tools are no longer considered to be a luxury and rapidly become a standard.
when an error does come - you need to be able to solve it right away.
This provides a consistent and repeatable baseline measurement without all of the vagaries that can be introduced from real-user requests.A company should strive to understand why their site may be providing such widely different response times and seek to reduce the range of performance to a more consistent and narrow range.
These technologies enable new business opportunities, ways to optimize and automate, along with new ways to engage with users.These technologies have been enabled by a perfect storm of technologies converging.
These resources and platforms are easily accessible to all to collect data and provide insight into the usage of the thing.
This is why we believe seeing inside the software is key to visibility for purposes of troubleshooting and creating insight into the IoT.
As a company AppDynamics believes that IoT will be a key part of computing and interconnected systems of the future, our customers are increasingly applying our technologies to these use cases, and we look forward to becoming an integral part of both collecting and analyzing data within these systems.
From the broad variety of performance-testing tools, we found an open-source framework called Gatling to best suit our requirements (scalable, easy to learn, configurable scenario assertions, great detailed reports).
Apps that perform well will engage the customer — poor app performance is a sure fire way to lose the customer and their business.
Mobile networks (WiFi, 2G/3G/4G) that provide the data connectivity: The average mobile app can be used on 10-20 networks (from various service providers and in various geographies) and it’s critical to ensure performance across all these networks.
The teams also need an integrated approach for change and performance management that makes it more effective to collaborate and identify change-related issues faster.
With this comprehensive visibility, customers can proactively manage performance and quickly identify the root cause of issues, thus ensuring amazing mobile experience.
with so many alternative choices at their fingertips, the user has almost no tolerance towards ill-designed or poorly performing mobile applications.
your users understand this reality but are looking for well thought-out designs that have fewer performance and crash issues.
This is where the speed index measurement of the site comes in as it provides a relative measure of performance that can differentiate among websites with similar visually complete times to show which site will be perceived by the customer to have better performance.
Then engineering teams can go in and make the necessary code and infrastructure optimization necessary for software to actually perform better.
In many cases, the application performance monitoring (APM) and Business iQ platform served as the collaboration engine, with voice/video/chat software like Skype or Slack on top.
Monitoring systems need to grow ahead of the data and provide tools that scale.
An OverOps infused CI/CD pipeline offers increased developer velocity.
Companies began to realize that they could both improve operations and save money by migrating to the cloud.
Companies need an accurate way to analyze their payment history and usage growth rate to create expense projections.
Governance: Theoretically, if you can estimate that new resources are too expensive, you should be able to prevent their provisioning and deployment.
In addition to visibility, forecasting, and governance, it is crucial to shift cloud cost left and give developers the tools to prevent unnecessary cost increases as early as possible.
Companies like Snyk shifted security left and empowered developers by providing them with tools to detect and fix security problems much faster.
The same process needs to happen with cloud cost—developers need tools to understand how their code will affect cloud costs.
This is especially important since buggy applications are frustrating and considered unreliable by end users.
Performance monitoring is the last bit of monitoring that should be put in place after other areas are covered.
At Instana, we support OpenTracing as a key data source for our APM because we understand the great value it provides to developers that want to manually instrument their code.
We also see great value in agent-based automated tracing - especially for enterprises.
In these environments, it makes good business sense to understand performance with minimal effort, or automatically, with no adjustments to code needed to create the traces.
The user can choose the best tool for the job, and we will make sure that the end-to-end view is automatically created.
Nevertheless, there would be a high value if standardizing the TraceContext between APM vendors will work out as this allows for better interoperability between tools (especially important in Hybrid Cloud environments) - but we shouldn't mix this up with developer-oriented frameworks like OpenTracing.
The "Monitor" section of the DevOps loop provides the all-important feedback that drives future iterations.
Eventually, APM tools like AppDynamics, New Relic, and Dynatrace got really good at using automated methodologies to create code level observability (production profiling) in monolithic and SOA applications.
Tools, systems, and platforms making it easier and reducing the downside making it more consumable.
Several monitoring tools such as AppDynamics, Datadog, Grafana, and Prometheus are available to help collect this data and display it in efficient ways.
The ultimate goal is to help enterprises reduce the risk of end users impacting production deployments by monitoring and looping feedback earlier in the application lifecycle.
Developers should now be able to immediately see the potential impact of code changes, remediate and fix poor app behavior earlier in the lifecycle.
This is an ideal goal to work towards that will become increasingly important as the number of services, traffic, and data scales.
For organizations that are heavily siloed, this approach can help empower teams when it comes to operating their software.
It provides a layer of abstraction that allows you to get the data everywhere it needs to be without impacting developers and the core system.
By migrating to microservices IT will enable your teams to become more innovative as they are freed up from daily mundane tasks supporting and developing on a legacy system that simply cannot compete in the competitive world we are in today.
We create value on mobile apps with external development providing an entry point to enter the data center and consume our APIs.
We empower from hundreds to thousands of microservices to happen with a self-service platform for developers to publish new services and new versions as needed.
This makes it easier to respond to market shifts, be more responsive to customers, and occasionally shoot for the moon.
By splitting the legacy application into microservices, you have more freedom to innovate, for example, on the user-interface or reporting, while keeping the backend and processing platform unmodified.
It is important that API providers share their security practices like DataDog does, helping build trust, and demonstrate competency when it comes to operations.
Distributed tracing is opening the way to understand to what is really happening across microservices.
Kubernetes also has the best community support and exponential adaptability across the industry.
Kubernetes as an orchestrator is again dominating the microservices deployment world, as one of the most famous and liked platform to host and run microservices enabled with containers.
As distributed applications have grown in popularity, so have distributed tracing tools, providing a valuable overview to help you follow execution of the workload across a cluster.
You need to architect your application, nodes, and clusters to fit a tracing library, meaning it offers you unparalleled ability to find a problem, but only after you invest a significant amount of time.
Instead of maintaining state in your application, you instead maintain a continually updating log of events, and what triggered them in an external store.
Then if an application state is ever in doubt, and you need to debug what happened, you replay the events leading up to it to ascertain at what state the application should be.
More than a thousand companies use Stitch to move billions of records every day from SaaS applications and databases into data warehouses and data lakes, where it can be used for analysis, reporting, or training machine learning models.
Companies across the world are adopting cloud computing technology for multiple benefits.
It will increase the security level of your cloud-based apps.
This will help you create a strong solution, which delivers value to your end-users.
Companies like Spotify, Coinbase, Stitch Fix, and BuzzFeed use CircleCI to improve engineering-team productivity, release better products, and get to et faster.
PCF allows developers to deploy and deliver software quickly, without needing to manage the underlying infrastructure.
Our platform is elegant, flexible, and easy to use, offering developers the simplest path to getting their apps to et.
It helps you understand how your applications are performing and proactively identifies issues affecting them and the resources they depend on.
Azure Monitor maximizes the availability and performance of your applications and services by delivering a comprehensive solution for collecting, analyzing, and acting on telemetry from your cloud and on-premises environments.
It helps you understand how your applications are performing and proactively identifies issues affecting them and the resources they depend on.
There's another important reason to study these metrics: they define the behavior of the infrastructure on which the applications run, and they can serve as an early warning sign of potential issues.
In a microservices landscape, we need to observe behavior across the multitude of microservices to get a better understanding of the application's performance.
The questions of where you are measuring the SLAs from is not simply resolved by using a third party; you need to make sure that your monitoring service is not monitoring from the wrong perspective.
But Microsoft hasn’t stopped there and is now attempting to address the needs of less technical users, involving them in the process by making serverless simpler and more approachable for non-coders.
If there are any errors in integrating changes, you can be notified and go straight in to fix the issue.
$BUDDY_FAILED_ACTION_LOGS will give an extensive overview of the logs of what went wrong, which is convenient because it helps in diagnosing any issues that pop up.
Rollbar helps developers deploy better software by helping you identify, prioritize, and help resolve code errors.
It works on the back-end and helps developers make sure that their APIs are working as intended.
It is regarded as one of the best tools for web developers for the purpose of API testing requirements.
Embold is a general-purpose static code analyzer that helps developers analyze and improve their code by surfacing issues across four dimensions, including design and duplication.
It is certainly one of the top developer apps because of its rich set of coding tools and features.
You can rest assured that whatever scale of API you end up having it will auto-scale to the size you need and serve your users without any issues.
The ecosystem is so evolved you won't have any issues setting up the necessary tools.
API-driven companies need to look at more than just engineering metrics like errors and latency to understand how their APIs are used (or why they are not being adopted as fast as planned).
In the last few years, APM tools have become very popular for companies who have software applications, and especially SaaS ones.
This is because they are affordable and can be adapted to almost any kind of business.
Instana helps companies manage and understand their cloud, container, and microservice applications.
