Tracking Adobe Experience Manger-AEM with Datadog
Suren Konathala
Suren Konathala
Follow
May 22, 2019 · 5 min read





Adobe Experience Manager aka AEM is a popular Content Management System (CMS) that allows builders, developers to create websites, user interfaces and experiences for a variety of devices. AEM platform has and is rated as the beat & a leader in Content Management systems by major analyst firms. AEM adoption numbers show it’s popularity.
While the focus of this article is not about AEM’s greatness, but to make it performant, identify (if any) leaks, slowness, breaches, downtimes and such. Unless we know what the problem(s) is(are), teams will not be able to fix them. As a popular quote goes “You cannot shoot what you don’t know you’re aiming for”.
And we will use Datadog to do the analysis & reporting job for us.
TL;DR
This article is about analyzing Adobe Experience Manger (AEM) with visualization of the data like dashboard, reports, charts using a tool called Datadog which collects information from AEM’s logs, action calls and other details.
Before we begin
Assumptions
This article is for readers with some working knowledge on AEM. Please check here for more details on what is AEM.
Focus of this article
This article is about integrating AEM with Datadog and how to access the various reports from within Datadog. We will not discuss about the functionalities AEM and Datadog in detail.
Organization of this article
The content of this article in three parts. (1)What are AEM and Datadog and Why do we need them; (2) How to install, configure Datadog and integrate it with AEM; (3) Finally How to access and view the reports.
Now that the stage is set, let’s dive in to the abyss.
Part 1 — The What
Caution: A lot of theory
What is AEM?
To put is simple, Adobe Experience Manager is a platform (more than a tool) that lets enterprises build websites and manage digital assets. More.
What is Datadog?
Datadog is a SaaS tool that monitors servers and software applications generating metrics, analysis and various reports. More.
Why do we need analytics on AEM?
While AEM is a popular, comprehensive and a robust platform offering a lot of features, it does not include tools that track, analyze and report on the platform itself. It does have a few reports but not extensive.
The focus of Adobe on AEM has been more on enabling teams to develop varied customer experiences. Having said that, AEM et better with more features and capabilities with it’s annual releases/updates.
Why Datadog?
Monitoring a platform like AEM is very crucial , teams have several options to monitor AEM. Datadog comes in the same category but is beyond any of the tools comparable. The options, in-depth analysis, reporting makes it unique in the market space. Datadog does a real good job at this.
In the next section we will see how to install, configure Datadog and integrate it with AEM.
Part 2 — How
Caution: This gets very technical
Step 1: Installing Datadog
Login to your Datadog account to see instructions on how to install.

Screenshot of Datadog Installation Instructions
Step 2: Configuration
You will see something like this if Datadog is running successful yon your machine

Screenshot of Datadog Agent Manager Running Successfully
Step 3: Running AEM
AEM can be setup to be run as a service (servers) or we can run it from a command (developers machines) like below:
$ java -jar cq-quickstart-version-p4502.jar

Adobe Experience Manager Home Page
Step 4: Integrating AEM with Datadog
Following the instructions from Datadog’s documentation site
Enable logs in datadog.yml file under /opt/datadog-agent/etc/datadog.yaml file.
vi /opt/datadog-agent/etc/datadog.yaml
Find and change from "# logs_enbaled: false" to "logs_enabled: true"
Create
$ cd /opt/datadog-agent/etc/conf.d
$ mkdir adobe.experience.manager.d
$ cd adobe.experience.manager.d
$ vi conf.yaml
<add the below lines>
logs:
  - type: file
    path: /Users/Software/aem65/author/crx-quickstart/logs/*.log
    service: aem
    source: adobe.experience.manager
Restart datadog-agent
Get the status of the Agent 
$ launchctl list com.datadoghq.agent
Stop the agent
$ datadog-agent stop
Start the agent
$ datadog-agent start
That’s it. We are done setting up Datadog and AEM.
In the next section we will see how to access the analytics and read them.
Part 3 — Reading the Analysis/Reports
Caution: Get your eye/reading glasses, we will be reading between numbers
Now that we have AEM and Datadog running, to access the analytics and reports, we have to do the following:
Open a browser and go to this url http://127.0.0.1:5002 and under Status, scroll down the page until you see adobe.experience.manager under Logs Agent

Login to Datadog portal
There’s so many reports you can view here. Below are some of them
Logs > Live Tail

Sample report of Logs > Live Tail
Logs > Analytics > Log Explorer

Sample report of Logs > Analytics > Log Explorer
Logs > Patterns (this is a great feature)

Sample report of Logs > Patterns
Dashboard (of my local mac)

There are several other reports and metrics Datadog console has like Dashboards, Monitors, Metrics, and several others.
Also all the above are happy paths without any exceptions or errors or warnings because we are tracking AEM from my local machine. If we are tracking from real servers these make a lot of sense to system administrators, architects, developers and a lot of stakeholders (if they can read between the lines).
These are invaluable and save a lot of time when managing and debugging AEM running on production servers.
This bring us to the end of the core content.
What’s next?
There is so much that can be done on AEM, the numerous report on Datadog. Both platforms will not stop continuously innovating coming up with new features, options, simplifying things. This innovation and enablement helps businesses a lot with value creation and keeps us builders, developers, architects, system administrators busy learning the new tricks.
Keep learning, ALWAYS!!