How to connect your user and infra visions
Thomas Poignant
Thomas Poignant
Follow
Nov 6, 2020 · 4 min read






Honeycomb markers of your datadog alerts.
Observability and monitoring is a key tool to know how your product is going. There are thousands of good products to get this data and to evaluate these, but my favorites are datadog and honeycomb.io they are both super great in their expertise domain.
We are using datadog to monitor our infrastructure and to collect our logs and we are using honeycomb for tracing, so honeycomb has the user vision when datadog has the infrastructure vision.
We have one problem here is that these 2 visions are not connected, so sometimes it is hard to understand what we see in the user vision if we have no context of what happened in the infrastructure.
So what we want is that when an alert is triggered by datadog we need to see it in honeycomb.
Honeycomb Markers
Markers are for indicating points in time on your graphs where interesting things happen, such as deploys or outages.
We will use markers to have a visual way to see the datadog alert in our timeline.
How to create these datadog alert markers?
Create a Honeycomb API key
First, what we need to do is to create an API key to be able to create a marker with an API call.
Connect to your honeycomb.io account
Go on your team settings
Under section API Keys section, create a new key with the following params.

Create a webhook in Datadog
Now that we have a Honeycomb API key we can create a custom webhook integration in datadog to call markers API.
Connect to your datadog account
Go in Integrations > Integrations > webhooks

3. Inside the webhooks integration, add a new webhook.
In your configuration, you should have:
URL: https://api.honeycomb.io/1/markers/<YOUR_DATASET>
Payload:
{
    "message":"DD #$ALERT_ID ($ALERT_TRANSITION)",
    "type":"$EVENT_TYPE",
    "url":"$LINK"
}
Now that everything is set, the last thing is to call this webhook on your monitor in datadog.
That part works exactly the same way that you set up your monitors in datadog.
{
    "X-Honeycomb-Team":"YOUR_HONEYCOMB_API_KEY"
}

Call the wehook
Now that everything is set, the last thing is to call this webhook on your monitor in datadog.
That part works exactly the same way that you set up your monitors in datadog.

How it looks
Now that you have everything setup, your next alert will appear in your honeycomb.io timeline, and it will be way easier to understand your user behavior.
As you can see below, we have a new marker that links us directly to the datadog alert so, it is easy to have the information that something happens and, you can click on it to see directly the datadog’s alert.

So as you can see now, we have a cross vision from user to infrastructure, and let me tell you that it will help you a lot to debug your next incident.